1. While most goods and services in the consumer basket decelerated in March, consumer price inflation remained high mainly due to isolated price increases (specifically certain regulated prices). In particular, Broad National Consumer Price Index (IPCA) inflation was virtually unchanged in March compared to February, due to the aforementioned acceleration of some regulated prices. Wholesale agricultural prices also increased, reflecting the effects of the drought on grain harvests. 
2. In March, the IPCA rose 0.61%, compared to 0.59% in February. The accumulated increase in the quarter reached 1.79%, and in the twelve months through March totaled 7.54%. Regulated prices rose 1.29% in the month and accounted for 0.38 p.p. of the monthly change in the IPCA, driven by adjustments to urban bus fares in São Paulo and Porto Alegre (contributing 0.25 p.p.), and water and sewage in six capital cities (contributing 0.08 p.p.). Market prices rose 0.33% (versus 0.77% in February), accounting for the remaining 0.23 p.p. of the IPCA monthly change. Education, which increased 0.4% in March compared to 5.3% in February, contributed significantly to the deceleration in market prices. 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) rose 0.99% in March, compared to 0.40% in February, for an accumulated 1.73% in the first quarter of the year, and a 10.92% increase in twelve months. Among the IGP-DI components in March, the Consumer Price Index – Brazil (IPC-Br) rose 0.70%, after a 0.43% increase in February, reflecting the same transport and housing price pressures that impacted the IPCA. The National Index of Civil Construction (INCC) rose 0.67%, above the 0.44% increase in February, due to labor cost increases. The Wholesale Price Index (IPA-DI) rose 1.14%, versus 0.39% in February, accumulating a twelve-month increase of 12.80%. 
4. The acceleration of IPA-DI inflation in March was mainly due to the 3.59% increase in agricultural prices (up 1.29% in February), driven by increases in the prices of rice, corn, wheat and soy. Industrial prices rose 0.30% (versus 0.08% in February). IPA inflation for final and intermediate goods cooled from February to March, while raw material prices increased 2.91%, after falling 1.1% in February, mainly due to agricultural components. 
5. IPCA core inflation, calculated under the trimmed means methods, accelerated in March. The smoothed core reached 0.62%, compared to 0.60% in the previous month, and totaled 7.42% in the twelve months through March. The non-smoothed core rose to 0.49% from 0.43% in February, with an accumulated twelve-month increase of 6.33% through March. 
6. IPCA core inflation calculated by the exclusion of household food and regulated prices fell to 0.41% in March, from 0.93% in February, due to the easing of seasonal education price pressures. This measure of core inflation increased 7.31% in the twelve months through March. 
7. IPC-Br core inflation, calculated by the Getúlio Vargas Foundation (FGV) under the symmetric trimmed means method, reached 0.49% in March from 0.36% in February, for a cumulative twelve-month increase of 5.68%. 
8. The IPCA diffusion index fell for the second consecutive month, reaching 63.9% in March (64.6% in February and 73.2% in January). 
9. The inflation shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations used the following assumptions: 
a) The projection for the adjustment of both gasoline and bottled gas prices for 2005 remained unchanged at 0%, 
b) Projections for adjustments of fixed telephone rates for 2005 fell to 7.9% from 8.7% as of the previous meeting, while projections for adjustments of household electricity increased to 10.8% from 9.5%, 
c) For all regulated prices, which represented a total weight of 29.4% in the March IPCA, a 7.2% increase is projected for 2005 (0.3 p.p above the prior projection), 
d) The projection for regulated price adjustments in 2006, following the model of endogenous determination, which takes into account seasonal components, the exchange rate, market price inflation, and the change in the IGP-DI, stands at 5.1%, 
e) The projection for the 6-month spread over the Selic rate, following the specification of a Vector Autoregressive model based on the Selic and the swap rates on the eve of the Copom meeting, increases from 34 basis points in the second quarter of 2005 to 44 basis points in the last quarter of 2006.
10. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the consolidated public sector primary surplus target of 4.25% of GDP for 2005 and 2006 will be achieved. The related assumptions considered in the March Copom meeting were maintained. 
11. Assuming the maintenance of the Selic rate at 19.25% p.a. and the exchange rate at the level prevailing on the eve of the Copom meeting (R$/US$2.60), the IPCA inflation rate was projected above the 5.1% objective for 2005, but below the 4.5% central target for 2006. Using the consensus Selic rate and exchange rate projections compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations Group (Gerin) on the eve of the Copom meeting, inflation was also projected above the 2005 objective and above the 2006 central target. 
12. IPCA inflation rose 0.61% in March, virtually unchanged compared to the two previous months. The March IPCA was significantly influenced by adjustments in urban bus fares and water and sewage fees. On the other hand, the impact of the annual adjustment of school tuition fees dissipated, and as a result, market prices decelerated, especially non-tradables. Even though inflation remained at a level similar to that of January and February, a reduction in the number of items registering price increases occurred, as had happened in February. 
13. IGP-DI inflation accelerated for the second consecutive month, reaching 0.99% in March, mainly driven by the IPA upsurge. As happened in February, the increase in wholesale price inflation was due to strong pressure from agricultural prices (up 3.59%, versus 1.29% in February and -0.63% in January), owing to adverse weather conditions. Agricultural price increases may continue in the coming months, reflecting the recent increase in international agricultural commodity prices. Industrial IPA has posted only modest changes since December, but recently registered a slight acceleration. As highlighted in the March Copom Minutes, the minimal increases in the industrial IPA in recent months partially reflects the exchange rate appreciation and the effects of monetary policy, and may positively affect the future evolution of consumer prices. Naturally, the intensity of the pass-through will depend on prospective demand conditions and price setters’ expectations relative to the inflation trajectory. 
14. Core IPCA inflation calculated by excluding household food items and regulated prices decelerated strongly in March, due to the end of the effects of school tuition fee increases and the fact that this core measure does not consider the recent sharp increases in regulated prices. Had education costs also been excluded, this core would have decelerated steadily in recent months. In turn, trimmed-means core inflation, both with and without smoothing, accelerated in March when compared to February, partially incorporating items affected by seasonal factors. Throughout the first quarter, the trend of underlying core inflation remained above the target path, even considering the deceleration observed relative to the fourth quarter of 2004. 
15. According to seasonally adjusted data from the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), industrial output declined for the second consecutive month in February. While this result contradicted that suggested by leading and coincident indicators, the accommodation of industrial activity is unsurprising given its elevated levels at the close of 2004. In addition, specific factors, such as the delay in the sugar-cane harvest and the slowdown in oil refining, could have influenced the February result. February industrial performance could also be reflecting fluctuations inherent to the series and the seasonal adjustment process for moving holidays. As emphasized in the March Copom Minutes, the economy continues to show signs of expansion, however, at a slower pace than that registered in 2004. Analyzing the more stable three-month moving average series, which smoothes the seasonal and calendar effects, industrial output remained stable in recent months. Leading and coincident indicators signal industrial production expansion in March. 
16. In terms of the composition of industrial activity, consumer goods continued to expand on a three-month moving average basis, relative to January. Consumer durable goods production expanded most strongly, at 3.2%, driven by the strong growth in production of exports goods – such as cell phones and cars. The production of consumer semi-durables and non-durables grew at a slower pace, of 0.84%. The other categories registered deceleration. The pattern registered in February, in which consumer durables posted strong performance while more income-sensitive sectors lost dynamism and even declined in month-on-month seasonally adjusted terms, appears inconsistent with the current stage of the economic cycle. Given the recent monetary policy stance and the positive evolution of the labor market, one would expect economic activity to be increasingly sustained by income-sensitive sectors. The aforementioned specific factors that negatively impacted industrial production in February also had a particularly strong impact on the more income-dependent categories, making it more difficult to assess both aggregate and disaggregated industrial activity data. More data will be necessary to better characterize changes in the pattern of industrial activity. 
17. The labor market has followed the seasonal pattern observed in prior years, with the unemployment rate increasing for the second consecutive month to 10.6% in February, from 10.2% in January, but remaining below the level of last year. The number of employed workers declined slightly from January to February, while payrolls and real average earnings rose in the period. National Industry Confederation (CNI) data, seasonally adjusted by the BCB, shows that industrial employment continued the expansion begun in December 2003, while real industrial payrolls held steady in February relative to January, but at a level significantly above that of February 2004. Data from the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) on formal employment showed a 6.4% increase in the first two months of the year. 
18. After expanding significantly through 2004, retail sales have shown some accommodation in the initial months of 2005. In February, sales fell 3.2%, according to IBGE data, seasonally adjusted by the BCB. This result could have been influenced by the same seasonal adjustment problems discussed for industrial production. Furniture and household appliance sales posted the strongest growth, at 0.7%, while all other categories contracted. On a three-month moving average basis, sales continued to grow, driven by the expansion in furniture and household appliances, while the other categories declined. This contrast between the performance of consumer durable and non-durable sales is similar to that observed for industrial production, and is equally out of tune with what one would expect at this stage of the economic cycle. As in the case of industrial output, more data will be necessary to better characterize changes in the pattern of retail sales. 
19. As repeatedly emphasized in prior Copom Minutes, given the strong expansion of economic activity since 2003, the performance of aggregate supply in the coming quarters remains a key point of concern with regard to prospective inflation dynamics. Installed capacity utilization, measured by CNI and seasonally adjusted by the BCB, declined in February (81.9%), potentially reflecting the maturation of new investments made in recent months and also the accommodation in economic activity. Despite the recent evolution, the index remains at historic highs. Capital goods absorption grew a cumulative 2.8% in the first two months of the year, in seasonally adjusted terms. Given the strong growth of investment in 2004, one can expect that there will be a reduction in its pace of growth as results will be compared to a higher base. 
20. Strong trade surpluses continued in March, reinforcing the favorable outlook for the year. Exports and imports continued to expand at a strong pace in the first quarter of the year, relative to the same period of 2004. In the twelve months through March, exports grew 31.0%, relative to the preceding twelve months, while imports grew 30.3%, on the back of strong domestic demand. In monthly terms, both exports and imports grew in March at a pace slightly below that of February. The trade balance reached a twelve-month cumulative US$35.9 billion surplus in March, an increase of 32.2% over the same period of 2004. In volume terms, manufacturing exports continued to post the strongest growth, when comparing the first two months of 2005 with the same period of 2004. The robust performance of the trade balance contributed to the current account surplus of US$12.7 billion in the twelve months through March, equivalent to 2.1% of GDP. External demand, therefore, continues to contribute to the economic expansion. 
21. International capital market conditions have remained volatile since the last Copom meeting. In addition to the uncertainties regarding U.S. monetary policy, market instability has been driven by risk aversion in U.S. credit markets, due to difficulties faced by some large companies that could lead to portfolio reallocations unfavorable to emerging markets. As a consequence, Brazilian country risk was very volatile, posting the highest spreads in recent months. The real, after depreciating in mid-March, appreciated to February levels. As stressed in prior Copom Minutes, abundant international liquidity and market stability remain tied to macroeconomic conditions in the industrialized countries, especially the U.S., and to the Fed´s potential monetary policy response to economic developments. Despite the volatility of recent weeks, the Committee's members continue to assign a low probability to a significant deterioration in international financial markets driven by abrupt changes in the conduct of U.S. monetary policy.
22. International oil prices have recently registered a slight decline, after reaching record highs at the end of March and beginning of April. Oil prices have continued to be driven by news related to demand conditions and available oil inventories in the main consumer countries, as well as possible supply restrictions among producing countries. Despite the slight decline observed since the last Copom meeting, international gasoline prices have remained above domestic prices. The persistence of prices at these levels remains surrounded by a considerable degree of uncertainty, such that the Committee maintained the assumption in its benchmark scenario that domestic fuel prices will not be upwardly adjusted in 2005. However, oil prices represent a bigger risk to the future inflation trajectory. Even if this recent uptick in international prices does not translate into an increase in domestic gasoline prices, it affects the prices of oil derivatives and market inflation expectations. 
23. Since the March meeting, the median of market expectations for 2005 IPCA inflation deteriorated to 6.10% from 5.77%. As mentioned in prior Copom Minutes, inflation expectations for 2005 remain high, despite favorable developments that could dampen inflationary pressures, such as signs of a deceleration in economic growth, the decline in wholesale industrial prices, the reassessment of market expectations for the exchange rate trajectory, and the more restrictive monetary stance. 
24. The marginal increase in 2005 inflation expectations, however, is mainly tied to higher-than-expected adjustments of some regulated prices, such as urban bus fares, to higher inflation expectations to April, and to less favorable external conditions. The impact of bad weather conditions on short-run food prices also contributed to higher inflation expectations for the year, although these effects tend to reverse as soon as normal agriculture supply conditions are reestablished. The expectations for twelve-month ahead inflation also deteriorated in the last weeks. However, these upward adjustments were of the same magnitude as those for second quarter inflation expectations, suggesting that the more restrictive monetary policy stance has prevented short-term inflationary pressures from contaminating longer forecast periods. The existence of well-anchored inflation expectations is strengthened by stable 2006 inflation forecasts. 
25. Under the benchmark scenario – which assumes the maintenance of the Selic rate at 19.25% p.a. and the exchange rate at R$/US$ 2.60 during the forecast period – projected inflation rose in comparison to the March meeting projection, standing above the 5.1% objective for the year. The deterioration was due to a range of factors, such as the revision of estimates for regulated price changes in 2005, which resulted mainly in an upward adjustment to April inflation estimates. The forecasts based on the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange rate and Selic rate trajectories on the eve of the Copom meeting – exceeded the benchmark scenario forecast, and also rose relative to the previous month, due to the same reasons stated for the benchmark scenario. For 2006, the inflation forecasts declined, with the benchmark scenario forecast below the target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN) for the year, and the market scenario forecast above the target. The improvement in projections for 2006 reflects the longer time horizon for the consolidation of the effects of the monetary tightening process begun in September 2004. 
26. The Copom also analyzed inflation forecasts for the 12-month periods ending in March, June and September of 2006. The results for these periods will be more responsive to current monetary policy decisions than those of calendar year 2005, and the available inflation projections are more reliable than those for calendar year 2006. The benchmark scenario forecast for the twelve-month period ending in March 2006 is above the value interpolated from the 5.1% inflation objective for 2005 and the 4.5% target for 2006. This forecast is also above the forecast made at the March meeting. On the other hand, the benchmark scenario forecasts for the twelve-month periods ending in June and September are below the inflation target path for these periods. The forecast for the twelve-month period ending in June is the same of that made at the March meeting, while the forecast for the twelve-month period ending in September is below the estimate made at that time. 
27. The Committee reaffirms that, as stated in the February and March Minutes, the effects of the monetary tightening begun last September are already influencing first quarter inflation results as well as future inflation expectations. Economic activity continues to expand, although at a slower pace and more in line with supply conditions, so that there are no significant pressures on inflation. However, as in the March meeting, the Copom identified some factors that heightened the risks to inflation convergence with the target path. These risks are associated with the persistence of some isolated pressures on current inflation and the deterioration in the external environment, given the persistence of high oil prices and the possibility of ongoing volatility in international capital markets. 
28. The Committee also reiterates that, under the inflation-targeting regime, its decision-making is oriented toward forecasted future inflation, analyzing alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that affect price dynamics. The continuation of heightened risks to short-term inflation tends to increase the uncertainty regarding future inflation, so that both the monetary authority’s assessment of inflation dynamics and the coordination of private sector expectations are more difficult. In such circumstances, heightened uncertainty caused by factors that could reverse in the short term, could nevertheless have a more lasting effect on longer-term inflation expectations. Therefore, monetary policy should remain vigilant so that short-term pressures do not contaminate longer time horizons. 
29. Due to the short-term risks and their persistence in recent months, the Copom assessed that just maintaining rates for a sufficiently long time at the level established in the March meeting would not ensure inflation convergence to the target path. Thus, the Committee's members unanimously decided to increase the Selic rate target to 19.50% p.a., without bias, and closely follow the inflation outlook until the next meeting, to then define the next steps in the monetary policy strategy implemented since September. As highlighted in the March Copom Minutes, the monetary authority must remain ready to adapt the pace and magnitude of the interest rate adjustment process to the prevailing circumstances, in case of an exacerbation of the inflation risk factors.
