1. Despite the seasonal rise in consumer price inflation in July, the overall inflation outlook in the month suggests continued cooling of inflationary pressures. Consumer price increases in the month were mainly restricted to specific regulated prices, such as fixed-line telephone rates, gasoline, and health plans. Wholesale prices contracted for the third consecutive month, driven by a reduction in agricultural and industrial prices. 
2. The IPCA rose 0.25% in July (versus –0.02% in June), for an accumulated increase of 3.42% in the year through July, and 6.57% in the last twelve months. The main driver of the July result was the 4.21% increase in fixed-line telephone rates, which contributed 0.14 p.p. to the monthly result. Overall, regulated prices drove the July IPCA increase, as market prices remained stable. The drop in food and beverage prices (-0.77%) compensated for other price increases, and explains the stability in market prices. 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) fell 0.40% in July, contracting for the third consecutive month. In the year and in cumulative twelve months, IGP-DI inflation rose 1.12% and 4.88%, respectively. The Consumer Price Index-Brasil (IPC-Br) rose 0.13% (versus -0.05% in June), driven primarily by the increase in its housing component, due, in turn, to the increase in fixed-line telephone rates. The increase in the National Index of Civil Construction (INCC) reached 0.11%, down from the 0.76% increase registered in June, due to the dissipation of labor cost pressures. The Wholesale Price Index (IPA-DI) contracted for the third consecutive month, -0.69%, posting a -0.53% result in the year, and a twelve-month trailing increase of 3.84%. 
4. The drop in the IPA-DI in July reflected declines in agricultural and industrial prices. Agricultural wholesale prices fell 1.6%, following a 0.98% contraction in June, driven by the reduction in prices of animal and animal derivative products and by the stronger drop in export food product prices. Of note, prices of legumes, fruits, cereals, and grains rose in the month, reversing the downward trend of prior months. The weaker decline in industrial prices, down 0.38% in July versus a 0.71% contraction in June, was due to the 1.78% rise of fuel and lubricant prices (declines of 1.10% in May and 0.12% in June). Meanwhile, important manufactured products – such as foodstuffs, metals, and plastics – continued to register price declines. The IPA-DI by production stage showed downward movement in prices of final, intermediate, and primary goods, despite the reversal in fuel prices. 
5. Smoothed trimmed-means core inflation fell to 0.45% in July, from 0.49% in June, for a twelve-month trailing increase of 7.4%. Non-smoothed trimmed-means core inflation rose to 0.31% in July, from 0.26% in June, for a twelve-month trailing increase of 6.08%. Core inflation calculated by the exclusion of household food and regulated prices remained practically stable in July at 0.37%, with a twelve-month cumulative increase of 6.87%. 
6. IPC-Br core inflation, calculated by the Getúlio Vargas Foundation (FGV) under the symmetric trimmed means method, was 0.3% in July, the lowest monthly result since October 2000. Year-to-date through July, IPC-Br inflation reached 3.61%, with a trailing twelve-month increase of 5.83%. 
7. The IPCA diffusion index (measuring the number of items in the IPCA registering price increases) posted a significant drop, to 53.7% in July, from 61.7% in June. 
8. The inflation shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations utilized the following assumptions: 
a) The projections for the adjustment of both gasoline and bottled gas prices for 2005 remained unchanged at 0%, 
b) Projections for fixed telephone rate adjustments in 2005 were reduced to 6.1% from 6.5%, and remained unchanged for household electricity at 8.2%, 
c) For all regulated prices, which represented a total weight of 29.6% in the July IPCA, the Copom maintained its projection for adjustments in 2005 at 7%, 
d) The projection for regulated price adjustments in 2006 was maintained at 5.7%. To arrive at this value, individual projections were made for some of the items for which 2005 adjustments have already occurred. For the other items, the projection continued to follow the model of endogenous determination, which takes into account seasonal components, the exchange rate, market price inflation, and the change in the IGP, 
e) The projection for the six-month spread over the Selic rate, using a VAR model based on the Selic and swap rates on the eve of the Copom meeting, increases from an average of –83 basis points in the third quarter of 2005, to 35 basis points in the fourth quarter of 2006. 
9. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the consolidated public sector primary surplus target of 4.25% of GDP for 2005 and 2006 will be achieved. The related assumptions considered in the July meeting were maintained. 
10. In the benchmark scenario – maintenance of the Selic rate at 19.75% p.a. and the exchange rate at the level prevailing on the eve of the meeting (R$/US$ 2.35) – the IPCA inflation rate was projected above the 5.1% objective for 2005, but below the 4.5% central target for 2006. In the market scenario – using the consensus Selic rate and exchange rate expectations compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations Group (GERIN) on the eve of the meeting – inflation was projected above the 5.1% objective for 2005 and above the 4.5% central target for 2006. 
11. IPCA inflation in July (0.25%) continued to show signs of accommodation, despite rising above the June rate. In the May-July period, IPCA inflation stood at 0.72%, versus 2.08% in the February-April period. Twelve-month trailing IPCA inflation fell to 6.57%, 0.70 p.p. below the June level and 1.5 p.p. below the peak reached in April. As in June, market prices were stable in July, the IPCA increase was driven by the rise in regulated prices, particularly fixed-line telephone rates. Tradable goods prices dropped, but were counterbalanced by the acceleration of non-tradable goods inflation. 
12. Core inflation also showed signs of accommodation at lower levels. Smoothed trimmed-means core inflation decelerated again in July, despite its implicit inertial component, but nevertheless continued to post the highest year-to-date and twelve-month trailing inflation of all the core inflation measures monitored by the Copom. Core inflation by exclusion remained stable. Meanwhile, non-smoothed trimmed-means core inflation accelerated slightly in July, but remains the core measure with the lowest year-to-date and twelve-month trailing inflation. Following the deceleration in May and June, and relative stability in July, core inflation measures posted another drop in twelve-month trailing terms, and have come even closer to levels compatible with the inflation target path. 
13. The IGP-DI registered deflation for the third consecutive month, dropping 0.40% in July. The result was driven by the sharp drop in wholesale price inflation (-0.69%), which brought twelve-month trailing IPA-DI to 3.84% in July, down from 5.97% in June. Wholesale price deflation resulted from the reduction in consumer goods (including consumer durables) and producer goods prices. IGP-M data for the first ten days of August suggest the fourth consecutive, and largest, monthly decline in the index, due to ongoing declines in industrial prices and a sharp drop in agricultural prices. IPA-DI inflation remains below IPCA inflation, for both year-to-date and twelve-month trailing, indicating a consistent accommodation of wholesale prices with positive implications for consumer price inflation. As emphasized in prior Copom Minutes, the intensity and continuity of this pass-through will depend on demand conditions and price-setters’ expectations for the future inflation path. 
14. Industrial production rose a month-on-month seasonally adjusted 1.6% in June, confirming the trend suggested by leading and coincident indicators. With the June result, industrial production increased for the fourth consecutive month, and reached a record high for the second consecutive month, with year-to-date growth of 5.0%. The three-month moving average also posted a record high for the second consecutive month, growing 1.0% relative to May. Industrial production rose a cumulative 6.7% over the last twelve months. Leading and coincident indicators suggest a month-on-month decline in July, but continuing growth in three-month moving average terms. 
15. All use categories of industrial production registered growth in June, driven primarily by consumer durable goods production (8.1%) and capital goods production (4.2%). Semi- and non-durable goods production posted the lowest seasonally adjusted growth, at 0.7%. After a volatile start to the year, capital goods production rose for the second consecutive month in June, with year-to-date growth of 3.8%. Meanwhile, consumer durables production remained robust, with a year-to-date increase of 16.7%. In three-month moving average terms, capital goods production rose 1.9% and consumer durables production rose 4.2%, both reaching record highs. Semi- and non-durable goods production grew for the second consecutive month, rising 6.7% in the first half of 2005 relative to the same period of 2004, and 0.4% in three-month moving average terms relative to May. The June results show more broadly disseminated growth across categories, vis-à-vis the beginning of the year, and underscore the favorable outlook for industrial production going forward. 
16. June labor market data remained favorable. The unemployment rate measured by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE) stood at 9.4%, the lowest level for the series as measured since October 2001, and 2.3 p.p. below the rate registered in June 2004. The number of employed individuals rose 3.7% in the first half of the year, relative to the same period of 2004. After declining for two months, real average incomes rose 1.5% in June, versus May. Manufacturing employment rose 0.1% in June, as measured by the National Industry Confederation (CNI) and seasonally adjusted by the BCB. Real manufacturing payrolls rose 0.5%, for year-to-date growth of 9.0%. Formal employment, measured by the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE), also expanded, with the creation of 195,536 jobs in June, for cumulative year-to-date job creation of approximately 1 million positions. 
17. Retail sales rose 1.2% in June, according to seasonally adjusted data from the IBGE, for a year-to-date increase of 4.6%. As in prior months, and in line with the recent performance of industrial production, growth was driven by furniture and household appliance sales, which rose 4.3% in June, month-on-month. IBGE also upwardly revised retail sales data for May, showing a much stronger growth of 1.2% (versus 0.4% in the first reporting). As a result, the three-month moving average series showed growth of 0.9% in June, relative to May. Considering the May data revision, all retail sectors posted two consecutive months of growth, with the exception of fabric, clothing, and shoes. In particular, hyper- and supermarket sales in May were upwardly revised, from a contraction of 0.4%, to an increase of 0.7%. As in the case of industrial production, the June retail sales data show more broadly disseminated growth across sectors and, together with the performance of employment, income, and credit, underscores the favorable outlook going forward. 
18. Installed capacity utilization in the manufacturing sector, as measured by the CNI and seasonally adjusted by the BCB, rose to 82.8% in June, reaching levels comparable to the beginning of 2005 and, for the first time in the year, rising for two consecutive months. After a period of accommodation at historically high levels, one could envision a scenario for the second half of the year in which capacity utilization expands even more. As emphasized in prior Copom Minutes, in an environment of historically high levels of installed capacity utilization, the inflation path will depend on the capacity of current and prospective supply increases to meet demand conditions. With regard to investment, capital goods absorption rose 2.5% in June, and 4.3% in the first half of the year. Despite a considerably elevated comparison base (given the robust investment expansion in 2004), the indicator suggests ongoing strong growth, particularly for capital goods imports, which grew 28.3% in volume terms through July, when compared to the same period of 2004, and for domestic capital goods production, with seasonally adjusted growth of 5.2% in May and 4.2% in June. While signs of an investment recovery are mounting, the performance of aggregate supply in the coming quarters remains a key concern with regard to inflation dynamics. 
19. Exports and the trade surplus continued to post record highs in July, confirming the favorable outlook for the year. The twelve-month accumulated trade balance reached US$ 39.9 billion in July, an increase of more than US$ 1.5 billion over the previous month. In the twelve months trough July, export growth slowed modestly to 26.2% in value terms, relative to the preceding twelve months, while import growth was 24.5%. Despite the spike in oil prices, recent import growth has decelerated more than export growth, with the exception of capital goods imports (a 24% twelve-month expansion, the strongest growth rate since March 1998). The robust performance of the trade accounts in the twelve-month period through July underpinned the current account surplus of US$ 13.4 billion, equivalent to 1.9% of GDP. The data suggest that external demand is providing more support to the economic expansion than was expected at the beginning of the year. 
20. International financial market volatility remained elevated, but there was no significant change in the scenario considered by the Copom at its July meeting. The long-awaited adjustment in the Chinese exchange rate regime occurred without significant implications for the main global financial assets. Brazilian country risk fell close to the historic lows reached in October 1997, but remained at these levels for only a brief time. The volatility in Brazilian country risk was accompanied by similar volatility in the exchange rate. Liquidity conditions and financial market stability remain tied to macroeconomic conditions in the industrialized countries, especially the United States, and to the Fed’s potential monetary policy response to economic developments. In general, recent indicators suggest a favorable outlook, in the sense that the Fed will continue to raise interest rates at a measured pace. An additional point of concern is the current account imbalances in some of the largest economies, and the possibility that eventual adjustments will result in significant currency movements. Despite these concerns, about which there is a significant degree of uncertainty, the Copom continues to assign a low probability to a significant deterioration in international financial markets. 
21. The main concern with regard to the external scenario is the recent spike in oil prices. The recent deterioration reinforces concerns that international prices could spike even higher, and that, even after moderating, could remain at higher-than-expected levels for an extended period of time. As in prior months, oil price projections remain subject to a considerable degree of uncertainty, prompting the Copom to maintain its baseline scenario that there will be no adjustment to domestic fuel prices in 2005. The Copom has maintained this scenario, given evidence that speculative positions have likely driven recent oil price increases, and could reverse in the near term, regardless of possible specific geopolitical tensions. It is important to emphasize that, since the July meeting, the baseline scenario for the oil price outlook has become increasingly implausible and the risks to the scenario are mounting, such that there could be an increase in domestic gasoline prices in the year. In addition, independently of what occurs with domestic gasoline prices, international oil price trends continue to represent a risk to the future inflation path via the effects on oil-intensive products as well as private sector inflation expectations. 
22. In August, inflation expectations fell for the third consecutive month, reflecting the larger than expected deceleration in the July IPCA. Since the July Copom meeting, median IPCA inflation expectations for 2005 declined to 5.40% from 5.66%, increasingly in line with the 5.1% inflation objective for 2005. Twelve-month ahead inflation expectations have fallen marginally in recent weeks, while inflation expectations for 2006, after remaining stable at 5.0% for 64 weeks, fell slightly to 4.98%. In addition, since the June meeting, there was a progressive reduction in the average and standard deviation of the distribution of projections, suggesting an increase in optimism with regard to the 2006 inflation outlook. This could be seen as evidence that inflation expectations for longer time horizons continue to be influenced by favorable developments that are cooling inflationary pressures, including the monetary policy stance and improved market expectations for the exchange rate path. As mentioned in prior Copom Minutes, these developments suggest that the monetary policy stance has both contained short-term inflationary pressures and contributed to the consolidation of a more favorable longer-term macroeconomic environment. 
23. The 2005 inflation forecast under the benchmark scenario – which assumes the maintenance of the Selic rate at 19.75% p.a. and the exchange rate at R$/US$ 2.35 during the forecast period – declined relative to the July Copom meeting, but remains above the 5.1% inflation objective for the year. The improvement is primarily due to the lower than expected inflation result for July, the reduction in inflation expectations, and the reassessment of projections for regulated price adjustments in the rest of the year. The forecasts based on the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange rate and Selic rate trajectories on the eve of the Copom meeting – remain above the benchmark scenario, but declined relative to the July meeting. For 2006, the benchmark scenario inflation forecast declined slightly and remained below the central target established by the National Monetary Council. The forecast under the market scenario remained stable, and above the central target. 
24. The Copom also analyzed inflation forecasts for the twelve-month periods ending in March, June, and September 2006. The forecasts for these periods will be more responsive to current monetary policy decisions than those for calendar year 2005, and also more reliable than those for calendar year 2006. The forecasts under the benchmark scenario for the twelve months ending in March, June and September 2006 were below the target inflation path values interpolated from the 5.1% objective for 2005 and the 4.5% target for 2006. 
25. The Committee reaffirms the view, expressed in prior Copom Minutes, that the effects of the interest rate tightening cycle begun in September 2004 continue to be reflected in both year-to-date inflation results and forward-looking inflation forecasts. Economic activity continues to expand, but at a pace more compatible with supply conditions, such that it will not exert significant inflationary pressures. In addition, the Committee maintains the view that the external scenario remains supportive, despite the recent spike in oil prices, which now represent a significantly higher risk to the inflation path than at the July meeting. Therefore, there are more definite signs of a benign inflation scenario. As in the July meeting, the Copom emphasizes that the main challenge of monetary policy in this environment is to guarantee the consolidation of the favorable developments anticipated for the future. 
26. In an inflation-targeting regime, the monetary authority assesses alternative scenarios for the evolution of the principal variables that shape price dynamics, in order to orient its decision-making process. The recent consolidation of favorable inflation dynamics should significantly reduce uncertainties regarding future inflation, and make it easier for the monetary authority to evaluate potential scenarios and coordinate private sector expectations. Furthermore, the persistence of a tighter monetary policy stance should help to bring inflation in line with the short-term objectives, in an environment in which activity indicators have demonstrated consistent strength and short-term inflation results owe to specific factors that may reverse in the future. Such a policy should have more lasting effects on longer-term inflation expectations, thereby significantly reducing the costs associated with the monetary authority’s efforts to bring inflation in line with the target path. 
27. The Copom therefore unanimously decided to maintain the Selic target at 19.75% p.a., without bias, and closely follow the evolution of the inflation outlook until the next meeting, at which time it will define the next steps in the monetary policy strategy implemented since September 2004.