1. IPCA monthly inflation doubled in September (0.35%) as against August (0.17%). Despite this increase, the IPCA quarterly moving average remained at low levels by historical standards, down to 0.26%, versus 0.64% recorded in September 2004. The acceleration in monthly inflation was expected, as it was driven primarily by the mid-September fuel price increase (responsible for 40% of the IPCA change). The effect of the fuel price increase is also expected to carry over into the October inflation results. The behavior of the IPCA diffusion index provides further evidence that the September up-tick in inflation was due to one-off factors – it remained at 51.4%, the third lowest level since the floating of the currency, in January 1999, albeit slightly up from 48.4% in August. Market prices posted virtually no change, for the third consecutive month. Among its components, tradable goods prices fell for the fourth consecutive month, while non-tradable goods recorded monthly average inflation of 0.22% in the four months ended in September, versus 0.78% in the preceding four-month period. As mentioned in prior Copom Minutes, the uncharacteristically sharp and lasting reduction in food prices in recent months has helped the favorable consumer price inflation trend. However, the contribution of the food price effect to inflation is declining at the margin. Regulated prices recorded average inflation of 0.57% in the four months through September, versus 0.71% in the February-May period. 
2. Recent core inflation trends also suggest an accommodation to levels below those prevailing at the start of the year. Core inflation by exclusion, smoothed trimmed means and non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation rose 0.30%, 0.51%, and 0.34%, respectively, in September. The more moderate increase in core by exclusion, versus the headline index, reflects the fact that the IPCA increase in September was largely due to the increase in fuel prices and to the more moderate reduction in food prices, both of which are excluded from this core inflation measure. In the four months through September, core inflation by exclusion, smoothed trimmed means and non-smoothed trimmed means cores averaged 0.32%, 0.45%, and 0.30%, respectively, versus 0.66%, 0.64%, and 0.52% in the four months ending in May. While the September result broke the steady downward trend in monthly core inflation observed since April, twelve-month trailing inflation under the three core measures has continued to decline since May. 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) fell 0.13% in September, declining for the fifth consecutive month and approaching levels observed at the start of the year. The drop in the IGP-DI was again driven by deflation in the Wholesale Price Index (-0.28%). IGP-DI inflation in the year through September reached a modest 0.19%, while twelve-month trailing inflation came to only 2.08%. The IPA-DI, which also declined for the fifth consecutive month, posted deflation of 1.84% in the year-to-date, and twelve-month trailing inflation of only 0.22%. The atypical, ongoing stability of wholesale prices reflects the behavior of consumer (excluding durables) and producer prices. Of particular note, the stability of the IPA-DI is attributable to the sharp 9.91% trailing twelve-month fall in wholesale agricultural prices, in conjunction with the moderate 3.89% increase in wholesale industrial prices (the lowest increase since January 1999). Leading IGP-10 data for October suggest continued wholesale agricultural price deflation, but an increase in wholesale industrial prices, driven mainly by the fuel price increase. In both the year-to-date and the twelve months through September, the General Price Indices have recorded inflation below that of the IPCA – underscoring the consistent accommodation of wholesale prices and the potential positive spillovers to consumer prices in the coming quarters. As emphasized in prior Copom Minutes, the intensity and continuity of this pass-through in the coming months will depend on demand conditions and price-setters’ expectations for the future inflation path. 
4. After the 1.9% reduction in July, in line with revised data released by the Brazilian Institute of Statistics and Geography (IBGE), industrial production rose a seasonally adjusted 1.1% in August, as previewed by leading and coincident indicators. The August result brought industrial production growth to 4.3% in the year-to-date and 5.1% over the past twelve months. Over the course of the year, the monthly values in the seasonally adjusted series alternated periods of growth, stability and contraction but, in general, industrial production has remained at elevated levels by historical standards. The more stable three-month moving average series underscores the strong performance of industrial production, rising in August for the fifth consecutive month and reaching a new record high, 3.6% above the value observed in August 2004. Leading and coincident indicators suggest a slowdown in industrial activity in September. 
5. In August, all use categories of industrial production recorded seasonally adjusted growth. Capital goods production rose the most (3.1%), followed by consumer and intermediate goods, up 1.3% and 0.1%, respectively. The three-month moving average series showed stability in capital goods production, a modest decline in intermediate goods production, and a 0.6% increase in consumer goods production. In contrast to prior months, the greater dynamism of consumer goods production was due to the production of semi- and non-durables, which rose 1.6% relative to July, while durable goods production fell 1.7%. Semi- and non-durable consumer goods production rose 6.4% in the year-to-date, and 5.7% over the past twelve months, reflecting the growing importance of income gains in the current expansion. Despite the drop in August, consumer durable goods production is up 15.7% in the year-to-date and over the past twelve months, well above the average overall industrial production result. 
6. The labor market remained firm in August, in step with the more stable macroeconomic environment and the historically elevated levels of economic activity. The unemployment rate measured by the IBGE was 9.4% in August, unchanged for the third consecutive month, two percentage points below the level registered in August 2004, and the lowest level for the series as measured since October 2001. The number of employed persons rose 3.4% in the year, compared to the same period of 2004. Workers continued to recover purchasing power, with real average incomes rising 3.7%, relative to August 2004, the largest year-on-year increase in the series - underscoring the positive effect of the drop in inflation on real wages. According to the National Industry Confederation (CNI), manufacturing employment rose 5.6% year-to-date through August, and 5.9% in the twelve months through August, while real payrolls increased 8.9% and 9.5% in the same periods, thus evidencing that the increase in jobs is being accompanied by an improvement in the quality of industrial employment. Formal employment, measured by the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE), also continued to rise. With the creation of 189,458 positions in September, year-to-date formal job creation exceeded 1.4 million positions. 
7. Seasonally adjusted data from the IBGE showed a 0.4% reduction in retail sales in August. This contraction was wholly attributable to the 2.4% drop in fabric, clothing, and shoe sales, as all other categories posted growth. Of note, the month-on-month reduction in fabric, clothing, and shoe sales in August followed a robust 7.1% expansion in July. Despite the August drop, the three-month moving average for overall retail sales shows an expansion of 0.3%, the fifth consecutive increase. Furthermore, retail sales are up 4.86% in the year-to-date and 6.30% in the past twelve months. The performance largely reflects positive labor market developments, as described above, and credit growth. Despite the lack of detailed current data, available indicators suggest that retail sales will continue to expand in the coming months. 
8. Installed capacity utilization in the manufacturing industry, as measured by the CNI and seasonally adjusted by the BCB, rose to 82.0% in August, from 81.6% in July. Capacity utilization remains at elevated levels by historical standards, although dropping below the record levels reached in the second half of 2004. As emphasized in prior Copom Minutes, the relative stability of capacity utilization could be due to the maturation of investments, given that industrial production growth has outpaced installed capacity utilization in recent months. The persistence of historically high levels of installed capacity utilization makes the inflation path more dependent on the capacity of current and prospective supply increases to meet demand conditions. With regard to investment, capital goods absorption registered an expansion of 4.7% in the year through August, driven largely by the rise in capital goods imports (up 30.2% in volume terms over the same period of the previous year). While there is stronger evidence of a recovery in investment, the performance of aggregate supply in the coming quarters remains a key point of concern with regard to future inflation dynamics. 
9. Recent data confirm that external trade performance in 2005 will outpace that of last year. In September, twelve-month cumulative exports exceeded US$112 billion, driven primarily by the growth in manufactured exports. In addition, the twelve-month cumulative trade balance exceeded US$41 billion, with imports totaling US$72 billion. Exports rose 24.7% in value terms over the preceding twelve months, while imports rose 22.5%. Export and import (excluding capital goods) growth has decelerated at the margin, despite the rise in oil prices. Capital goods imports rose 31.9% in September compared to the same month of 2004, for a cumulative 29.2% expansion in 2005 and 25.6% over the past twelve months. Therefore, throughout the course of 2005, the relative participation of capital goods imports in total imports has risen, to the detriment of raw material and intermediate goods imports. In line with preliminary data, the strong performance of the trade accounts in the twelve months through September contributed to a current account surplus of US$13 billion, or 1.8% of GDP. While the contribution of external demand to the ongoing economic expansion has diminished somewhat in recent months, it remains important and above that expected at the start of the year. 
10. International financial markets remained characterized by relatively high volatility, however, there was not a significant change in the scenario considered by the Copom at its September meeting. In the final week of September, Brazilian country risk fell close to the historic lows reached in 1997, only to partially retrace those gains in October, despite the improved sovereign credit outlook communicated by two ratings agencies. These favorable developments were counterbalanced by concerns about the path of U.S. inflation, mainly in the wake of fuel price increases. In the short term, liquidity conditions and financial market stability remain tied to macroeconomic conditions in the U.S., and to the Fed’s potential monetary policy response. In general, recent indications suggest that the Fed will probably continue to raise interest rates at a measured pace. An additional point of concern is the external account imbalances in some of the largest economies and the possibility that eventual adjustments will result in significant currency movements. Despite these concerns, about which there is a significant degree of uncertainty and scope for an increase in short-term volatility, the Copom continues to assign a low probability to a significant deterioration in international financial market conditions. 
11. International oil prices have fallen from the peak levels recorded in August. Meanwhile, international gasoline prices have recently de-linked from oil prices to reach record highs, due to the damage to refining capacity in the Gulf of Mexico caused by Hurricane Katrina. In both cases, while there has been a considerable reduction from peak levels, prices remain high and may remain at higher-than-expected levels for an extended period of time. On the domestic front, the fuel price increase implemented in mid-September, which will still carry over into the October IPCA, prompted the Copom to work with a domestic fuel price scenario in which there is no further gasoline price increases in 2005. Nevertheless, given the uncertainties surrounding the path of international oil prices, rising oil prices continue to represent a risk factor for the future inflation path, given that these prices can be passed through to the domestic economy via their effects on oil-intensive products as well as private sector inflation expectations. 
12. The inflation shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations utilized the following assumptions: 
a) The projection for gasoline price adjustments in 2005 remained unchanged at 7.5%. The projection for bottled gas prices was increased to –1.2% from –1.7%, 
b) The projection for fixed line telephone rate and household electricity adjustments in 2005 remained unchanged at 6.7% and 7.6%, respectively, 
c) For all regulated prices, which represented a total weight of 29.9% in the September IPCA, the Copom maintained its projection for 2005 adjustments at 7.8%, 
d) The projection for regulated price adjustments in 2006 was reduced to 5.1% from 5.3%. There was an increase in the number of items for which price changes were individually projected, contributing to greater precision in the 2006 projections. For the remaining items, the projection continued to follow the model of endogenous determination, which takes into account seasonal components, the exchange rate, market price inflation, and the change in the IGP, 
e) The projection for the six-month spread over the Selic rate, using a Vector Autoregressive model based on the Selic and swap rates on the eve of the Copom meeting, increases from an average of –86 basis points in the last quarter of 2005, to 33 basis points in the last quarter of 2006. 
13. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the consolidated public sector primary surplus target of 4.25% of GDP for 2005 and 2006 will be achieved. The related assumptions considered in the September meeting were maintained. 
14. Since the September Copom meeting, median IPCA inflation expectations for 2005, compiled by the Investor Relations Group at the BCB, rose slightly, from 5.19% to 5.24%. The increase is mainly due to the fact that the September surveys did not fully capture the effects of the mid-September fuel price increases. Despite the recent slight rise, expectations remain close to the 5.1% inflation objective pursued by the Central Bank. For 2006, expectations have fallen more markedly, to 4.6% from 4.8%, but nevertheless remain slightly above the 4.5% target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). As mentioned in prior Copom Minutes, these developments suggest that the recent monetary policy stance has both contained short-term inflationary pressures and contributed to the consolidation of a more favorable longer-term macroeconomic scenario. 
15. The 2005 inflation forecast under the benchmark scenario – which assumes the maintenance of the Selic rate at 19.50% p.a. and the exchange rate at R$/US$ 2.25 during the forecast period – remained unchanged from the prior Copom meeting, falling below the 5.1% inflation objective for the year. The forecasts based on the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange rate and Selic rate trajectories on the eve of the Copom meeting – declined relative to the September Copom meeting and are now in line with the 5.1% inflation objective. For 2006, the benchmark forecast declined, remaining below the 4.5% target established by the CMN. The forecast under the market scenario was unchanged, above the inflation target. 
16. The Copom also analyzed inflation forecasts for the twelve-month periods ending in March, June, and September 2006. The forecasts for these periods are more responsive to current monetary policy decisions than those for calendar year 2005, and also more reliable than those for calendar year 2006. The benchmark scenario forecasts for these periods were below the target inflation path values interpolated from the 5.1% objective for 2005 and the 4.5% target for 2006. 
17. The Copom reaffirms the view expressed in prior Minutes, that actual and expected inflation results demonstrate that the monetary tightening cycle begun in September 2004 has contained short-term inflationary pressures and consolidated a more favorable long-term macroeconomic environment. Economic activity continues to expand, but at a pace more compatible with supply conditions, such that it will not exert significant inflationary pressures. In addition, despite the recent increase in financial market volatility and the persistence of high oil prices, the external environment remains favorable, particularly with regard to external financing conditions for the country. There are, therefore, more definite signs of a benign inflationary environment. As in the September meeting, the Committee emphasizes that the main challenge for monetary policy is to ensure the consolidation of these favorable developments. 
18. The Copom considers that the recent spike in short-term inflation is being driven largely by the domestic fuel price adjustment implemented in mid-September, as well as by the partial reversal of the favorable food price dynamics. The effects of these factors have not been fully reflected in September inflation results and will therefore affect inflation measures to be released in the coming weeks. Since these are transitory pressures, it is expected that they will fade over time without necessarily contaminating longer time horizons. Nevertheless, the Copom will continue to direct its policy actions toward ensuring that the gains achieved in reducing inflation are made permanent. To this end, in the coming months, the Copom will closely follow the evolution of headline and core inflation, distinguishing between one-off and more generalized price adjustments, and quickly adapting its monetary policy stance to the circumstances. 
19. The uninterrupted convergence of inflation to the target path and the resulting consolidation of a more robust and lasting macroeconomic stability will contribute to the progressive reduction in perceived macroeconomic risk, a process already underway for several years in Brazil. The scope for a reduction in real interest rates in the future will naturally follow. The Copom considers that its cautious monetary policy stance has been critical in increasing the probability of inflation convergence to the target path. For this to materialize, however, it is important that forward-looking inflation indicators remain compatible with the more recent benign inflation outlook. Therefore, the easing of monetary policy will not compromise the important achievements made in recent months in lowering inflation and preserving economic growth with job creation and rising real incomes. 
20. The Copom therefore unanimously decided to reduce the Selic target to 19.00% p.a., without bias. Given the uncertainties surrounding the monetary policy transmission mechanisms and the risks associated to the outlined scenarios, the Committee considers that it will be necessary to closely follow the evolution of the inflation outlook until its next meeting, at which time it will define the next steps in its monetary policy strategy. 