1. In January, the IPCA rose 0.59%, up from 0.36% in December. The increase was due to acceleration in both regulated price inflation (up 0.58%), especially transportation, and market price inflation (up 0.60%), particularly fuel alcohol and sugar. The rise was mainly due to seasonal and one-off pressures, not representing a risk to convergence of inflation to the targets set by the National Monetary Council (CMN). The IPCA diffusion index remained stable at 59%. Inflation is expected to decelerate in February, in spite of seasonal tuition fees adjustments, and will likely be somewhat lower than the rate expected when the January meeting was held. 
2. Together with headline inflation, core inflation measures also accelerated in January, despite not interrupting the recent downward trend. Core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices, smoothed and non-smoothed trimmed means rose 0.87%, 0.61% and 0.61%, respectively, compared to 0.30%, 0.43% and 0.33% in December. Although January cores were higher than in January 2005, 12-month trailing figures dropped. Available indicators signal that February cores might remain steady, just as preliminary figures for March indicate some decline. 
3. After rising to 0.72% in January from 0.07% in December, the General Price Index (IGP-DI) declined in February to –0.06%, maintaining a downward trend in terms of 12-month trailing figures. The January increase was due to acceleration of the wholesale price component (IPA-DI), which grew 0.81% (versus –0.14% in December). In February, the IGP-DI decline was favored by IPA-DI contraction to –0.12%, as industrial and agricultural prices decelerated. In the twelve months through February, IGP-DI and IPA-DI stood at 1.15% and –0.75%, respectively, while industrial and agricultural IPA registered 1.40% and –7.07%. After one-off rises in January, there are consistent signs of accommodation in wholesale price inflation, with potential positive spillover effects on consumer prices in the coming quarters. As emphasized in recent Minutes, continuity and strength of this pass-through will depend on demand conditions and price-setters’ expectations for future inflation. 
4. GDP grew 2.3% in 2005, or 1.4% in the last quarter of 2005 compared to the same quarter of 2004. In quarter-on-quarter seasonally adjusted terms, GDP grew 0.8% relative to the third quarter (when a 0.9% contraction was registered). With regard to demand, annual growth reached 3.2%, or 3.5% in the fourth quarter relative to the same period of 2004. Demand expansion was mainly driven by a 3.2% rise in household consumption, equivalent to a seasonally adjusted growth of 1.3% relative to the previous quarter. Apparently an unusual inventory adjustment process continued to take place in the period. 
5. With regard to aggregate supply, industrial production grew a quarter-on-quarter seasonally adjusted 1.4%, while agriculture and services grew 0.8% and 0.7%, respectively. As to demand, fixed capital investment and exports grew 1.7% and 0.7% respectively, on the same basis. Government consumption remained unchanged, while imports fell 1.3%. Looking ahead, expansion in both employment and income levels, higher credit, and a more flexible monetary policy are factors that will favor economic activity in the coming quarters. Moreover, economic activity will benefit from the new minimum wage as well as increases in fiscal spending in the last quarter of 2005. 
6. After performing poorly in the third quarter, manufacturing activity resumed an upward trend in the last quarter of 2005. Seasonally adjusted data revised by the IBGE show a 1.3% growth in November (compared to 0.6% previously released) and 2.3% in December (third consecutive monthly growth and a record high), for a 3.1% expansion in the year. Continuing the diffusion process initiated in November, 21 out of 23 manufacturing sectors expanded in December. Leading and coincident indicators suggest modest month-on-month growth in January, despite persistent expansion on a three-month moving average basis. 
7. All use categories showed positive performance in December, despite sharp differences among them. Durable consumer goods production grew 17.6%, after falling 2.1% in November, while capital goods production increased 5.8%, compared to 5.5% in the previous month. On the other hand, intermediate and semi- and non-durable consumer goods performed below average, growing 1.2% and 3.5%, respectively. Three-month moving averages increased for all use categories, though at a slower pace than suggested by the seasonally adjusted series. In particular, capital and durable consumer goods production grew 2.1% and 6.3%, respectively. In the year, durable consumer goods production grew 11.4%, driven by credit expansion, while semi- and non-durable consumer goods expanded 4.6%, reflecting real income growth. Capital goods production grew 3.6%, albeit expanding 7.6% versus December 2004. Construction inputs grew only 1.3%, but accelerated at the end of the year, signaling good perspectives for investment. The expansion was of 7.1% as compared to December 2004, and 2.9% against the last quarter of that year. 
8. Labor market has sustained a positive trend, in line with GDP expansion in the last two years, and remains a key factor to demand growth. The unemployment rate measured by IBGE reached 9.2% in January, compared to 8.3% in December and 10.2% in January 2005. The monthly increase was probably due to seasonal factors, such as a reduction in temporary jobs, whereas the decline from January 2005 levels is attributable to improved macroeconomic environment, which translated into a 2.6% expansion in the number of employed persons, the highest rise since June 2005. After increasing by 1.8% in December, real earnings decreased 1.2% in January, but stood 2.3% above January 2005 levels, partially reflecting the positive effects of lower inflation on real wages. According to the National Industry Confederation (CNI), manufacturing employment rose 4.2% in 2005, while real payrolls rose 8.1%. These indicators confirm the recent trend in favor of higher quality jobs in manufacturing activity. Formal employment as measured by the Ministry of Labor and Employment maintained an upward trajectory in January, with more than 86 thousand new posts. In 2005, more than 1.2 million jobs were created. 
9. IBGE seasonally adjusted data for December showed a 1.2% increase in retail sales relative to November and a 4.3% increase relative to December 2004. In the year, retail sales expanded by 4.8%. This performance largely reflects expansion of sales that are more sensitive to income and employment, but it also mirrors the favorable dynamics of credit-sensitive goods. Three-month moving average sales grew for the second consecutive month (0.6%) and reached a new record high. Preliminary data for January and February suggest additional growth ahead. A favorable outlook for retail in 2006 is supported by positive labor market developments, credit expansion and the monetary easing cycle, in addition to the recovery in consumer confidence. 
10. Capacity utilization in manufacturing sector continued to increase in December, as measured by CNI, registering a 0.8% seasonally adjusted expansion compared to the previous month. This process takes place in a period of maturing investment projects made in recent years. Incidentally, capital goods absorption rose 4.1% in 2005, pushed by an increase in capital goods imports (up 21.4%). Even with fixed capital investment on the rise, performance of aggregate supply in coming quarters will be fundamental to define future inflation trends. 
11. Recent data confirm a favorable external trade performance at the start of 2006. Exports reached US$9.3 billion and US$8.8 billion in January and February, respectively, driven primarily by the growth in manufactured exports (57% of total exports growth). In the twelve months through February, exports grew 20.9% (outpacing US$120 billion, a record high) and the trade balance surpassed US$45 billion. Imports increased 16.2% in the period. Capital goods imports grew 26.8% in January and 26.3% in February, compared to the same months last year, reinforcing their increasing weight in total imports. The current account posted a US$452 million deficit in January, driven mainly by unusual profits and dividend remittances. The contribution of external demand to GDP is expected to decrease in 2006, albeit still significant to economic dynamics. 
12. At the start of January, Brazilian sovereign risk reached levels below 300 basis points for the first time, reflecting improved fundamentals, particularly robust trade surpluses, together with adequate consolidated public sector primary surpluses, continued disinflation, accumulation of international reserves and a better pubic debt profile. Recently, the call on Brady Bonds outstanding, and the exemption of the withholding tax on foreign investments in local public debt securities contributed to reduce the Embi+ Brazil to close to 200 basis points. On the other hand, uncertainties to future monetary policy in advanced economies resulted in upward pressures on interest rates, with potential impact over capital flows to emerging markets. However, Copom continues to assign a low probability to a significant deterioration in international financial markets that could affect Brazilian external financing conditions, as the economy is increasingly resilience to external shocks. 
13. In January, international oil prices reached the highest levels since beginning of September. In February, prices declined slightly, but remained at high levels. This need not prompt significant domestic inflationary pressures, due to the adjustment in fuel prices in mid-September. The recent reduction in the share of ethanol in gasoline may drive fuel prices up, though they may bounce back throughout the year. Copom maintains a scenario in which there is no change to domestic oil prices in 2006. Nevertheless, given the uncertainties, international oil prices remain a key concern to future inflation dynamics, because of the pass-through to domestic prices as well as the influence on market expectations. 
14. Inflation shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. Assumptions are as follows: 
a) Projections for gasoline and bottled gas prices adjustments in 2006 remained unchanged at 0%, 
b) Fixed line telephone rates are projected to go up 3.1%, as against 2.5% considered in January. On the opposite direction, household electricity projection is down from 4.2% to 3.6%, 
c) For all regulated prices, and considering their composition change discussed in the December Inflation Report, the Copom maintained the 4.6% adjustment projection for 2006. These items, according to the weights released by the IBGE in January, represent 33.33% of the total IPCA, 
d) The projection for regulated prices inflation in 2007, based on the endogenous determination model, remained at 6.2%. This model considers the effects of seasonal components, of the exchange rate, of market prices inflation and of the IGP, 
e) The projection for the six-month spread over the Selic rate, using a Vector Autoregressive model based on the Selic and swap rates on the eve of the Copom meeting, increased from an average of –124 basis points in the first quarter of 2006 to 50 basis points in the last quarter of 2007. 
15. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the consolidated public sector primary surplus target of 4.25% of GDP in 2006 and 2007 will be achieved. The related assumptions considered in the previous meeting were maintained. 
16. Inflation expectations remain anchored at the 4.5% target established by the CMN for the year. Since the January Copom meeting, median IPCA inflation expectations for 2006, compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations Group, slightly decreased to 4.56% from 4.59%. As mentioned in prior Copom Minutes, this fact suggests that the recent monetary policy stance has both contained short-term inflationary pressures and contributed to the consolidation of a more favorable longer-term macroeconomic scenario. 
17. The 2006 inflation forecast under the benchmark scenario – which assumes the maintenance of the Selic rate at 17.25% and the exchange rate at R$/US$ 2.15 during the forecast period - decreased relative to the forecast presented in the January meeting, remaining below the 4.5% inflation target for the year. The forecast based on the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange rate and Selic rate trajectories on the eve of the meeting – continued above the target for the year, despite lower than the January forecast. For 2007, the benchmark forecast remained below the 4.5% inflation target, but increased compared to January. On the other hand, the forecast under the market scenario increased, remaining above the inflation target. 
18. The Copom reaffirms the view that current and expected inflation demonstrate that the monetary stance adopted since September 2004 has contained short-term inflationary pressures and consolidated a more favorable long-term macroeconomic environment. Economic activity has recovered momentum at a pace consistent with supply conditions, such that it will not trigger significant inflationary pressures. In addition, despite continued volatility in international financial markets and the persistence of high oil prices, the external environment remains favorable, particularly with regard to Brazilian external financing conditions. Therefore, a benign inflation environment continues to evolve. As in the January meeting, the Committee emphasizes that the main challenge for monetary policy is to ensure the consolidation of these favorable developments. 
19. The uninterrupted convergence of inflation to the target path and the resulting consolidation of a long lasting macroeconomic stability will contribute to the progressive reduction in perceived macroeconomic risk, a process already underway for several years. The scope for a reduction in real interest rates in the future will naturally follow. The Committee considers that its cautionary monetary policy stance has been critical to increasing the probability of inflation convergence to the target path. For this to materialize, however, it is important that forward-looking inflation indicators remain consistent with the recent benign inflation outlook. In this way, the gradual monetary easing will not compromise the important achievements made in reducing inflation and preserving economic growth with job creation and rising real incomes. 
20. Considering the current scenario, the Copom unanimously decided to continue the monetary easing process started in September 2005. 
21. Three members of the Copom voted for a decrease of the Selic rate to 16.25%, which, according to their evaluation, would better signal the magnitude of the overall improvement of the risks associated to inflation dynamics between the January and March meetings. Current risks point to a sustained pickup of the economy, with good perspectives for fixed capital investment and imports growth, and also reflect the dampening of the January inflation up-tick. However, the members of the Committee that voted for a more expressive interest rate cut recognized that the next steps in the monetary policy strategy depend on future inflation developments and inflation expectations. 
22. The majority of the members of the Copom were concerned about the enhanced uncertainties regarding the monetary transmission mechanisms, its lags and future outcomes given the 250 basis points reduction in the Selic rate implemented since September. In light of the reduced difference between the current Selic rate and the medium-term equilibrium rate, those members understood that the improvement of the risks observed between the January and March meetings would justify a 0.75 p.p. cut in the Selic rate. This reduction would contribute to increase the intensity of the monetary adjustment process underway. 