1. After rising to 0.59% in January, IPCA inflation fell in February to 0.41%, confirming that the inflation increase at the start of the year was mainly due to seasonal and one-off pressures, as anticipated in the last Copom Minutes. In March, IPCA was virtually unchanged at 0.43%, for a 1.44% change in the first quarter of the year, compared to 1.79% in the same period of 2005. Twelve-month trailing IPCA inflation decreased from 5.70% in January to 5.32% in March, the lowest rate since June 2004. This decline partially reflects the favorable behavior of household food prices, which fell 0.90% in the February-March period, and took place despite pressures stemming from transportation prices. In particular, alcohol fuel prices rose 27.56% in the quarter (12.85% solely in March) and contributed 0.32 p.p. for inflation in the period. IPCA inflation is expected to decelerate again in April, reflecting the depletion of one-off factors that pressured prices in the first quarter, as well as the seasonal decline in food prices. As stressed in the last "Inflation Report" and in previous Minutes, the inflation scenario for 2006 is more benign than that observed in 2005, with favorable prospects for compliance with the target set by the National Monetary Council (CMN). 
2. All IPCA core inflation measures fell in the February-March period, similarly to the headline inflation. Core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices fell to 0.53% in March, down from 0.71% in February and 0.87% in January, averaging 0.70% in the quarter. Smoothed trimmed means core fell to 0.45% in March, down from 0.49% in February and 0.61% in January, averaging 0.52% in the period. Non-smoothed trimmed means core fell to 0.30% in March, down from 0.42% in February and 0.61% in January, averaging 0.44% in the quarter. Both trimmed means cores were stable relative to the previous quarter, while the core by exclusion more than doubled in the period. Twelve-month trailing inflation cores reached 5.78%, 6.41% and 5.11%, respectively, for the three measures mentioned. Only the non-smoothed trimmed means stood below the headline inflation. 
3. After a 0.72% rise in January, the General Price Index (IGP-DI) declined to –0.06% in February and –0.45% in March, for a 0.21% change in the quarter, compared to 1.73% in the same period of 2005. On a twelve-month trailing basis, IGP-DI stands at –0.29%, the lowest figure for the series as measured since 1944. The wholesale price component (IPA-DI) was the main driver of the fall, registering –0.12% and –0.82% changes in February and March, respectively. The IPA-DI contraction was mainly caused by the fall in agricultural prices, especially in March (-3.24%), reflecting sharp price decreases of products with large weight in the index, such as soybeans, corn and poultry. On a twelve-month trailing basis, the IPA-DI and the agricultural IPA reached -2.67% and –13.18%, respectively, while industrial IPA rose 1.03%. There are consistent signs of accommodation in wholesale price inflation, with potential positive spillover effects on consumer prices in the coming quarters, even though some trend reversion is likely to occur, reflecting the pressures of international commodities prices. As emphasized in recent Copom Minutes, the continuity and strength of this pass-through will depend on demand conditions and price-setters’ expectations for the future inflation path. 
4. After resuming growth in the last quarter of 2005 - following a weak performance in the third quarter -, industrial output fell a seasonally adjusted 1.3% in January, month-on-month, but grew 1.2% in February, on the same basis, according to data from the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE). In February, industrial output expanded by 5.4% versus the same month last year, growing for the fifth consecutive month. In the three-month period through February, industrial output grew 3.7%, compared to the same period of 2005, and 2.7%, quarter-on-quarter, seasonally adjusted. On a three-month moving average basis, industrial output grew for the third month in a row (0.8%). Industrial output recovery was broadly expected, due to the lagged effects of the monetary easing implemented since September 2005, and as a consequence of inventories reduction in the second half of 2005. As a result, industrial output in 2006 is expected to outperform 2005 growth (2.7%). Leading and coincident indicators suggest industrial output will contract in March on a three-month moving average basis. This decline, however, does not contradict the recovery trend, marked by short-term volatility around a clear growth trajectory. 
5. Disaggregated industrial data show divergent performances in January. Intermediate goods output increased 0.3%, while capital goods output decreased 4.5%, seasonally adjusted. Of note, the capital goods contraction in January followed sharp consecutive rises in November and December (4.6% and 6.4%, respectively). In February, only intermediate goods production contracted (-0.6%), while consumer and capital goods increased 3.0% and 1.5%, respectively. For both months, the three-month moving average series showed increases for all use categories, similarly to December. In the twelve months through February, capital goods production grew 4.2%, while consumer goods production increased 5.7%, with highlights for durable goods, which grew 12.2%, outperforming the average industrial growth. 
6. Labor market has sustained a positive trend, notwithstanding the 10.1% unemployment rate measured by IBGE in February, compared to 9.2% in January. Despite the recent increase, attributable to seasonal factors, unemployment rates at the start of 2006 were substantially lower than those recorded in the same months of 2005. The number of employed persons increased by 2.7% in the twelve months through February, while workers unemployed for a period between 7 and 11 months and for over 1 year diminished 3.7% and 6.7%, respectively. After declining 1.2% in January, real earnings increased 1.1% in February, standing 2.5% above February 2005, partially reflecting the positive effects of lower inflation on real wages. According to the National Industry Confederation (CNI), manufacturing employment rose 0.9% in the first two months of 2006, versus the same period of 2005, evidencing the trend that associates more jobs with higher real wages. Formal employment measured by the Ministry of Labor and Employment accelerated at the start of 2006, growing a seasonally adjusted 0.7% month-on-month in February, with 177 thousand jobs created, for 263 thousand new positions in the year. 
7. IBGE seasonally adjusted data recorded a month-on-month 4.1% increase in retail sales for January – the fourth consecutive rise -, followed by a 4.1% decrease in February. When compared to the same months of 2005, January and February sales expanded 6.5% and 5.4%, respectively. Quarterly moving averages, less influenced by seasonal factors, indicate growth rates of 2.0% in January and 0.4% in February, for a 3.0% growth in the three-month period to February. This performance not only reflects the expansion of more income- and employment-sensitive sales, but also mirrors the favorable dynamics of credit-sensitive sales. The favorable outlook for retail sales in 2006 is supported by positive labor market developments, credit expansion and the monetary easing cycle, in addition to the recovery in consumer confidence and the expansionary impacts of the minimum wage rise. 
8. Installed capacity utilization in the manufacturing industry slightly declined to 80.9% in February, as against 81.0% in December and roughly 2 p.p. below the levels registered in the beginning of 2005, according to CNI data seasonally adjusted by the BCB. This decline takes place together with mounting fixed capital investment. In the first two months of 2006, versus the same period of 2005, capital goods absorption expanded by 8.4%, mainly driven by the increase in capital goods imports volume (34.1%), while civil construction inputs expanded by 7.0%. Therefore, despite favorable prospects for aggregate demand expansion in the coming quarters, relevant supply unbalances are not anticipated. As stressed in previous Minutes, inflation trend is closely linked to current and prospective developments with regard to the expansion of supply to adequately meet demand conditions. 
9. Recent data confirm the strong performance of external trade at the start of 2006, and the Copom evaluates that external demand will continue to play an important role in economic activity dynamics. In March, twelve-month trailing exports reached US$123 billion, or US$11.4 billion solely in the month, exceeding by 22.9% March 2005 exports. Imports, which have also grown, reached US$7.7 billion in March, up 30.1% compared to the same month of last year. The twelve-month trailing trade surplus has continued to increase and reached a record high in March (US$45.8 billion). Nonetheless, a reduction in the 2006 trade surplus would not surprise, though a still robust result is expected. After registering a US$452 million deficit in January, attributable to unusual profits and dividends remittances, the current account surplus stood at US$725 million in February and US$1.4 billion in March, for a US$13.3 billion surplus in the twelve months through March, or 1.61% of GDP. 
10. International financial market liquidity conditions have continued to positively influence the domestic economic developments. However, as mentioned in the last Minutes, despite still benign, some deterioration in international financial markets have been observed, basically due to three factors: uncertainties regarding the length of the monetary policy tightening in the US, interest rate increases in the Euro Area, and the prospects for monetary policy in Japan. Nevertheless, the continuous improvement of domestic macroeconomic fundamentals, reflected on the continued disinflation, significant trade surpluses, accumulation of international reserves, adequate public sector's primary surpluses, improved public sector's debt profile and buyback of external debt, has strengthened the domestic resilience to shocks. The improvement in domestic resilience to shocks reflected not only the reduction in Brazilian country risk, which fell below 300 basis points in January and, since then, has averaged below 250 basis points, but also the evidence that the domestic economy has sustained the growth trend despite the long monetary adjustment process in course in the US. If, on the one hand, the start of a more restrictive monetary policy cycle in Japan tends to decrease international liquidity, on the other hand, it indicates that the second largest world economy is recovering its economic strength, with positive spillovers for international trade and for a more balanced world growth. Therefore, the Copom continues to assign a low probability to a significant deterioration in international financial market conditions that could affect Brazilian external financing. 
11. The main concern regarding the international scenario is the hike in oil prices, which lately reached record highs. The recent increase reinforces the concern that oil prices may reach more elevated peak levels than previously assessed in the most likely scenario, and that, even after an eventual reversal in prices, they may resist at levels above the expected. As in previous months, the future oil prices trajectory still encompasses great uncertainty. For this reason, the Copom maintains a scenario in which there is no change to domestic gasoline prices in 2006. This scenario finds support in assessments that underscore speculative key elements in recent oil price swings, which could retrocede soon, even in light of the increasing key geopolitical tensions. However, it should be recognized that since the last Copom meeting this scenario became less likely and that, therefore, the risks related to its materialization increased significantly. In addition, apart from the effects of an increase in domestic fuel prices, the elevation in international oil prices affects the domestic economy through productive chains, such as the petrochemical, as well as through the deterioration of market inflation expectations. 
12. The inflation shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations utilized the following assumptions: 
a) The projection for gasoline and bottled gas prices adjustments in 2006 remained unchanged at 0%, 
b) The projection for fixed line telephone and household electricity adjustments in 2006 also remained unchanged, at 3.1% and 3.6%, respectively, 
c) For all regulated prices, the Copom maintained the 4.6% adjustment projection for 2006. These items, according to the weights released by the IBGE in March, represent 33.32% of the total IPCA, 
d) The projection for regulated prices inflation in 2007, based on the endogenous determination model, remained at 6.2%. This model considers the effects of seasonal components, of the exchange rate, of market prices inflation and of the IGP, 
e) The projection for the six-month spread over the Selic rate, using a Vector Autoregressive model based on the Selic and swap rates on the eve of the meeting, increased from an average of –121 basis points in the second quarter of 2006 to 5 basis points in the last quarter of 2006, and 53 basis points in the last quarter of 2007. 
13. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the consolidated public sector primary surplus target of 4.25% of GDP in 2006 and 2007 will be achieved. The related assumptions considered in the previous meeting were maintained. 
14. Since the March meeting, median IPCA inflation expectations for 2006, compiled by the BCB’s Investors Relations Group (Gerin), decreased to 4.43% from 4.56%. This reduction was mainly driven by the downward revision of market inflation expectations for the second quarter. Twelve-month ahead inflation expectations presented more significant reduction, to 4.17% from 4.42%. For 2007, inflation expectations remained in line with the 4.50% target established by the CMN. As mentioned in previous Minutes, these developments suggest that the recent monetary policy stance has both contained short-term inflationary pressures and contributed to the consolidation of a more favorable longer-term macroeconomic scenario. 
15. The 2006 inflation forecast under the benchmark scenario – which assumes the maintenance of the Selic rate at 16.50% and the exchange rate at R$/US$ 2.15 during the forecast period - decreased relative to the forecast presented in the March meeting, remaining below the 4.5% target for the year. The forecast based on the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange rate and Selic rate trajectories collected by Gerin on the eve of the meeting – slightly declined relative to the March forecast, standing around the target for the year. For 2007, the benchmark forecast slightly increased compared to March, but remained below the 4.5% inflation target. On the other hand, the forecast under the market scenario remained virtually unchanged, and therefore, above the inflation target. 
16. The Copom reaffirms the view that current and expected inflation demonstrate that the monetary stance adopted since September 2004 has both contained short-term inflationary pressures and consolidated a more favorable long-term macroeconomic environment. Economic activity has recovered momentum at a pace consistent with supply conditions, such that it will not trigger significant inflationary pressures. In addition, despite continued volatility in international financial markets due to uncertainties regarding the monetary policy in developed countries and the record highs reached by oil prices, the external outlook remains favorable, particularly with regard to Brazilian external financing conditions. Therefore, a benign inflation environment continues to evolve, despite the likely reversal of favorable factors that subdued short-term inflation, and the increased risk stemming from important commodity prices. As in the March meeting, the Committee emphasizes that the main challenge for monetary policy is to ensure the consolidation of these favorable developments. 
17. The uninterrupted convergence of inflation to the target path and the resulting consolidation of a long lasting macroeconomic stability will contribute to the progressive reduction in perceived macroeconomic risk, a process already underway for several years. The scope for a reduction in real interest rates in the future will naturally follow. The Committee considers that its cautionary monetary policy stance has been critical to increasing the probability of inflation convergence to the target path. For this to materialize, however, it is important that forward-looking inflation indicators remain consistent with the recent benign inflation outlook. 
18. Copom emphasizes that there are important lags in monetary policy transmission to economic activity and inflation. Since the start of the monetary easing cycle, in September 2005, the Committee has reduced the Selic rate by 325 basis points. The activity level has not completely mirrored the effects of the interest rates cuts, as well as the effects of the recent activity resumption on inflation have not completely materialized. 
19. In the coming months, employment and income expansions and credit growth will continue to sustain economic activity. As mentioned in the March Minutes, activity level should also reflect the effects of the new minimum wage and the fiscal impulse of the last quarter of 2005 and first half of 2006. Consequently, the effects of interest rates cuts will add up to other factors that will contribute to demand expansion. 
20. Given the uncertainties surrounding the monetary policy transmission mechanisms, and the reduced difference between the current Selic rate and the medium-term equilibrium rate, the Copom understood that the maintenance of important achievements in disinflation and in preserving economic growth, with job creation and rising real incomes, may demand a more cautious monetary easing stance. This argument is even more relevant in light of the fact that the monetary policy decisions in the coming months will produce concentrated impacts for 2007. 
21. The Committee's members, therefore, unanimously decided to continue the monetary easing process begun in the September 2005 meeting, reducing the Selic target rate to 15.75% p.a., without bias, and closely follow the evolution of the macroeconomic scenario until its next meeting, at which time it will define the next steps in its monetary policy strategy 