1. Inflation as measured by IPCA (Broad National Consumer Price Index) continues to converge to targets established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). Such performance confirms assessments made in previous Minutes, which highlighted prospects for a benign scenario going forward. After presenting some stability in February (0.41%) and March (0.43%), inflation fell substantially in April (0.21%) thus providing for an accumulated 1.65% in the first four months of the year, comparing to 2.68% for the same period of 2005. Trailing twelve-month inflation was down from 5.70% in January to 4.63% in April, a record low since July 1999. The April performance was greatly favored by virtual stability in market prices, as well as deceleration in regulated prices rises. After increasing 27.65% in the first quarter, fuel alcohol prices reversed course, and diminished 0.11% in the month. Food prices continued to fall, a tendency that will probably revert in coming months. A benign inflation scenario consolidates, with ever more favorable prospects for target attainment in 2006, and positive spillovers to performance in coming years. 
2. Benign headline inflation performance in April was also reflected in BCB’s core inflation measurements. Core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices fell strongly from 0.53% in March to 0.22% in April, a record low since July 2002. Also, the non-smoothed trimmed means core fell from 0.30% to 0.19%, the lowest since November 2000. The smoothed trimmed means core fell only marginally, from 0.45% to 0.41%. In trailing twelve-months, core inflation has been decreasing since January, accumulating reductions in excess of 60 basis points. In the year, core inflation in its three measures (exclusion, non-smoothed and smoothed trimmed means) stands at 2.35%, 1.53% and 1.97%, respectively, as compared to 2.64%, 2.23% and 2.60% in the first four-months of 2005. 
3. After contracting for two months, the General Price Index (IGP-DI) was largely stable in April (0.02%) accumulating 0.23% in the year so far, against the 2.25% registered last year. In the twelve months to April, IGP-DI registers negative 0.77%, the lowest ever since beginning of calculation in 1944. As had already happened in February and March, the wholesale price component (IPA-DI) was the main driver of the IGP-DI performance, falling 0.15% in April. Such contraction was facilitated by continued deflation in agricultural prices (0.85%), on top of the 3.24% negative in March. April also saw twelve-month trailing IPA-DI standing at –3.14%, and –0.29% for the year so far. Agricultural IPA was of remarkable –12.52% in twelve months, and –4.18% to the year through April. In spite of recent international commodity pricing trends, wholesale may continue to contribute favorably to consumer price accommodation, both in the near and in the longer term. As stated in recent Minutes, continuity and strength of this pass-through will depend on demand conditions and price-setters’ expectations for future inflation path. 
4. GDP at market prices grew 3.4% in the first quarter, as compared to the same period of 2005, the highest rate since the first quarter of 2005. Over the previous quarter, seasonally adjusted data from the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE) indicates 1.4% growth, the highest since fourth quarter of 2004, year when a 4.9% expansion was registered. As compared to the first quarter of 2005, mining had an outstanding performance with 12.6%. Construction was up 7%, and aggregated manufacturing was up 5%. Services grew 2.8%, and agricultural and farming sectors went 0.5% down. 
5. Domestic absorption led the GDP expansion, and all demand components grew as compared to the first quarter of 2005. Capital formation was up 9%, and imports grew 15.9%. External demand contribution to GDP was negative in 0.4 percentage points, highlighting domestic demand relevance. Inventories contributed 0.5% negative, in line with the much-commented adjustment process initiated in the second half of 2005. Household consumption went up robust 4%, making for approximately 55% of GDP. 
6. According to seasonally adjusted data from IBGE, industrial production was slightly down in March, both in comparison to February and using three-month moving averages. If compared to March last year, though, production is up 5.2%. On quarter-on-quarter basis it is up 4.6%, confirming a recovery initiated in the last quarter of 2005. Prior Minutes had mentioned the fact that industry should grow in 2006 at a pace superior to that of 2005. Twelve-month data also let clear the rebound, after eleven months of moderation of growth, February presented a reversal, largely confirmed in March data. Industry recovery was expected, in view of the monetary easing lagged effects. Moreover, inventories adjustment is near completion. Leading and coincident April data show moderate growth in comparison with March. 
7. In comparison to March last year, capital goods production expanded brisk 10.1%, and durable goods went along with 11.4%. Capital goods production accelerated for the second consecutive month in a twelve-month period, after a 16-month deceleration season. Fundação Getúlio Vargas (FGV) survey on investor sentiment reveals over half consulted companies have an intention to invest more this year than they did in 2005. Indeed, capital goods up to March present significant 9.2% growth, as compared to the last year’s first quarter. In similar terms, durable goods grew even more (14.9%), on account of real income and credit expansion. 
8. Unemployment was stable at 10.4% in April, as measured by IBGE. Nonetheless, this is the lowest April figure since beginning of the series, in the format it has been calculated from 2001 on. There was a reduction of 0.4 p.p. if compared to April 2005, in spite of a 1.0% expansion in the economically active population. Employed persons were up 1.4%, also against April 2005. Evidence suggests improvement in labor market conditions, partly reflecting macroeconomic advances. Workers’ real income was 0.4% higher in April as compared to March, and 4.7% as compared to April last year, helped by lower inflation. According to the National Industry Confederation (CNI), manufacturing employment rose 0.88% in March, against March 2005. In the first quarter of 2006, over the same period of 2005, employment reached 0.85%. Formal employment accelerated at the start of 2006, as measured by the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE). It expanded 0.34% from February to March, seasonally adjusted. April saw an increment of some 0.42% over March, and of 5.23% over the twelve-month period. 
9. Retail sales increased 3.0% in March, as compared to March last year. The first two months of the year had been very strong, standing out of patterns observed since May 2005. Hence, first quarter growth pulled back to 5.0%, against the same period of 2005. Whether or not March deceleration means a return to the previous pattern is an issue that will have to wait for clarification. In recent months, however, performance of sales more sensitive to income and employment has been remarkable. The favorable dynamics of credit-sensitive sales also seems to be part of this general trend, which has developments in real wages as a backdrop. Preliminary April-May data already suggest continuity and strengthening of the movement, supported by further credit, income, and employment expansion. To the remainder of the year, other factors must also concur, namely the ongoing monetary easing, a recovery in consumer confidence, and the new minimum wage. 
10. Manufacturing capacity utilization was practically stable in March (81.1%, against 81.2% recorded in February), according to CNI seasonally adjusted data. First quarter average was 1.36 p.p. below the average for 2005 first quarter. At least partially, this reflects capacity enlargement. Indeed, recent data points to investment acceleration, both related to capital goods and construction supplies. In the first quarter, capital goods absorption increased 13.1%, as to the same period of last year. Capital goods imports contributed strongly to such result, growing 33.6% in volume, as well as construction supplies, which grew 6.9%, on the same basis. Hence, in spite of evidence pointing to aggregate demand advancing, supply side developments apparently head off the possibility of any potentially relevant mismatch. Prior Minutes have emphasized the importance of current and prospective developments in aggregate supply and demand conditions, in defining future inflation path. 
11. Recent data confirm the strong performance of the trade balance in 2006, underscoring the point made by Copom in previous Minutes, referring to the important structural changes in the economy’s trading links with the rest of the world. Through April, the 2006 trade surplus hit US$12.4 billion, 2.16% higher than in the same period of last year. For the first time since 2001, though, the twelve-month trading balance result of a month was inferior to previous month’s. Such moderation was already expected, and is not to pose any threat to 2006 prospects. Incidentally, exports just set a new record high of US$123.8 billion in the twelve-months through April. The same was valid for imports in the period (US$78.8 billion). The current account surplus was of US$241 million in April. Its twelve-month trailing registered US$12.8 billion, equivalent to 1.54% of GDP. 
12. The external environment changed significantly since the April meeting. Volatility increased markedly as sizable portfolio shiftings have taken place, consequent upon uncertainty to the timing and magnitude of the ongoing US tightening cycle. Short run instability had an impact on many currencies, as well as on emerging markets risk premiums. Over the intermeeting period, the exchange rate went from R$2.11 to R$2.30 per US dollar, and Brazilian sovereign risk, as measured by the Emerging Markets Bond Index Plus (Embi+), increased from 225 basis points to 267. Copom members see such instability as most likely a short-lived phenomenon. Moreover, the sound fundamentals of the Brazilian economy should contribute to weather the storm: consistent inflation reduction, robust trade surpluses, adequate primary fiscal surpluses, international reserves accumulation, domestic public debt profile improvements, and the buyback of external sovereign debt. A noticeable progress in the country’s resilience to shocks is evidenced by its unabated growth performance in the face of US interest rate adjustment cycle. Copom continues to assign low probabilities to a significant deterioration in international financial market conditions, one that could measurably affect Brazilian external financing conditions. 
13. Another concern regards oil prices, which have retreated somewhat in the intermeeting period, but still standing high and presenting huge volatility. Recent performance reinforces the idea that prices may, indeed, sustain longer at levels previously deemed unlikely. Great uncertainty continues to prevent reliable forecasting of future oil prices. On the other hand, past Minutes pointed out that these developments also widen risks to materialization of baseline scenarios, which have become less feasible themselves. Irrespective of what happens to domestic gasoline prices, international oil price hikes eventually find their way to the domestic economy, either through an impact on specific production chains (such as petrochemicals, for instance), or through deterioration in inflation expectations. 
14. Identifiable shocks and their consequences were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations utilized the following assumptions: 
a) Projections for gasoline and bottled gas prices’ adjustments in 2006 remained unchanged at 0%, as compared to the April meeting assessment, 
b) Projections for fixed telephone lines and household electricity pricing in 2006 underwent slight changes: electricity up from 3.6% to 3.7%, phone lines down from 3.1% to 2.6%, 
c) For all regulated prices, Copom maintained a 4.6% adjustment projection for 2006. These items stand for 33.4% of total April IPCA, 
d) The endogenous determination model keeps indicating 6.2% inflation for regulated prices in 2007. Such modelling takes into account market prices’ inflation, the General Price Index (IGP), the exchange rate, and seasonal components, 
e) The VAR model, based on Selic rate levels and 180-day swaps, estimates a spread of –70 basis points for the second semester of 2006, in the baseline scenario. Accordingly, spreads should reach 18 basis points in the last quarter of the year, and 57 b.p. in the last quarter of 2007. 
15. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the consolidated public sector primary surplus target of 4.25% of GDP in 2006 and 2007 will be achieved. Related assumptions considered in the previous meeting are maintained. 
16. Since the March meeting, median IPCA inflation expectations for 2006, as compiled by BCB’s Investors Relations Group (Gerin), have been decreasing consistently. From April to May, they diminished from 4.43% to 4.32%. This reduction was mainly driven by downward revision of market inflation expectations for the second quarter. Twelve-month ahead inflation expectations were relatively stable. For 2007, inflation expectations remained in line with the 4.50% target established by CMN. As mentioned in previous Minutes, these developments suggest that the recent monetary policy stance has both contained short-term inflationary pressures and contributed to the consolidation of a more favorable longer-term macroeconomic scenario. 
17. The 2006 inflation forecast under the benchmark scenario – assuming maintenance of the Selic rate at 15.75% and the exchange rate at R$/US$ 2.30 during the forecast period - raised relative to the forecast presented in the April meeting, but remained below the 4.5% target for the year. The forecast based on the market scenario – which incorporates consensus exchange rate and Selic rate trajectories collected by Gerin – declined relative to the April forecast, and is also below target. For 2007, the benchmark forecast increased as compared to April, keeping below the 4.5% target for that year. On the other hand, the forecast under the market scenario decreased, but is still above target. 
18. Copom reaffirms the view that current and expected inflation numbers demonstrate that the monetary stance adopted since September 2004 has both contained short-term inflationary pressures and consolidated a more favorable long-term macroeconomic environment. Economic activity gains momentum at a pace consistent with supply conditions, such that it will not trigger significant inflationary pressures. In spite of continued volatility in international financial markets due to uncertainties regarding monetary policy in developed countries, and the record highs reached by oil prices, the external outlook remains favorable, particularly with regard to Brazilian external financing conditions. A benign inflation environment continues to prevail, despite the likely reversal of favorable factors that subdued short-term inflation, and the increased risk stemming from important commodity prices. As in the April meeting, the Committee emphasizes that the main challenge for monetary policy is to ensure consolidation of these favorable developments. 
19. Uninterrupted convergence of inflation to the target path and the resulting consolidation of long lasting macroeconomic stability will contribute to the progressive reduction in perceived macroeconomic risk, a process already underway for several years. Wider scope for reduction of real interest rates in the future will naturally follow. Copom considers that its cautious monetary policy stance has been critical to increase the probability of inflation convergence to the target path. For this to materialize, however, it is important that forward-looking inflation indicators remain consistent with the current benign inflation outlook. 
20. Copom emphasizes that there are important lags in monetary policy transmission to economic activity and inflation. Since the start of the monetary easing cycle, in September 2005, the Committee has reduced the Selic rate by 400 basis points. Activity levels have not completely mirrored the effects of the interest rates cuts, just as effects of the recent activity resumption on inflation have not fully materialized. 
21. In the coming months, employment and income expansion and credit growth will continue to sustain economic activity. As mentioned in the April Minutes, the activity level should also reflect effects of the new minimum wage and the fiscal impulse of the last quarter of 2005, and first half of 2006. Consequently, effects of interest rate cuts will add up to other factors that also contribute to demand expansion. 
22. Given the uncertainties surrounding monetary policy transmission mechanisms, and the narrowed gap between current and medium-term Selic equilibrium rates, Copom understands that preservation of the important achievements in disinflation and economic growth, along with job creation and rising real income, may demand a more cautious monetary stance. This argument is even more relevant in light that monetary policy decisions of the coming months will produce impacts more concentrated in 2007. 
23. The Committee's members, therefore, unanimously decided to continue the monetary easing process begun in the September 2005 meeting, reducing the Selic target rate to 15.25% p.a., without bias, and closely follow the evolution of the macroeconomic scenario until its next meeting, at which time it will define the next steps in its monetary policy strategy. 
24. In an inflation targeting framework, authorities make decisions taking into account projected inflation, and using alternative scenarios to macroeconomic variables that have an impact on price dynamics. Even as we consider that recent increases in international market volatility are probably of transitional nature, their consequences in heightening uncertainties associated to future inflation may well impair both authorities’ ability to evaluate scenarios and private sector expectations coordination. Hence, monetary policy must remain vigilant so that short-run uncertainty does not feed into the longer-term horizon. Should potentially higher risks affect currently benign prospective scenarios, policy strategy will promptly be adapted to those, eventually new, circumstances. 