1. Inflation as measured by the IPCA presented lower-than-expected results in the last two months. IPCA inflation fell in May to 0.10%, down from 0.21% in April and 0.43% in March. In June, IPCA inflation dipped further to –0.21%, for a cumulative increase of 1.54% in the first semester of the year, roughly the half of the result observed in the same period of last year (3.16%). Twelve-month trailing inflation reduced to 4.03% in June down from 5.70% in January, the lowest level for the series since July 1999. The inflation decrease in the May-June period was mainly driven by the fall in market prices and the slowdown in regulated prices. The main price decreases were for housing, transportation and food and beverages, with highlights to the persistent slowdown in the prices of perishable food and fuel alcohol. A benign inflation scenario continues to evolve in line with the targets path, with favorable prospects for inflation in the coming years. 
2. All IPCA core inflation measures fell in the May-June period, similarly to the headline inflation. Core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices fell to -0.16% in June, down from -0.03% in May and 0.22% in April. Similarly, non-smoothed trimmed means core fell to 0.07% in June (the lowest level since November 2000), down from 0.24% in May and 0.30% in March. Smoothed trimmed means core has reflected the inertial component, and fell to 0.30% in June (the lowest level since July 1999), down from 0.47% in May. The three core measures continue to present a downward trend, in line with headline inflation observed in the last months. Moreover, on a twelve-month trailing basis, the core inflation by exclusion (4.09%) and the non-smoothed core inflation (4.16%) stood below the center of the target, similarly to the headline result. On the other hand, the smoothed core inflation has converged more slowly to the target, reaching 5.71% in the last twelve months ended in June. 
3. In contrast with consumer price inflation, the General Price Index (IGP-DI) increased to 0.67% in June, up from 0.38% in May and 0.02% in April, for a 1.28% increase in the first half of the year, compared to 1.53% in the same period of last year. In the twelve months through June, the IGP-DI increased 0.98%, outweighing the deflation observed in the twelve months ended in March, April and May. The IGP-DI upturn was mainly driven by the acceleration in wholesale price inflation. After presenting deflation in the three-month period ended in April, the IPA-DI increased 0.46 in May and 1.06% in June. The IPA-DI upturn reflected a sharp acceleration, but not totally unexpected, in agricultural prices and an increase in industrial prices. After falling for four consecutive months, accumulating a 5.04% decrease in the February-May period, the agricultural IPA reached 1.66% in June. Despite this fact, the agricultural IPA recorded –7.87% in the twelve months through June, the fourteenth consecutive monthly decline. On the other hand, after remaining steady in the three-month period ended in April, the industrial IPA increased 1.56% in the period May-June, but reached only 2.75% in the twelve months through June. Wholesale price inflation may continue to positively influence consumer price inflation in the coming quarters, despite the recent dynamics of international commodities prices. As emphasized in recent Copom Minutes, the continuity and strength of this pass-through will depend on demand conditions and price-setters’ expectations for the future inflation path. 
4. Industrial output held steady in April, but grew a month-on-month seasonally adjusted 1.6% in May, according to data from the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE). With this result, industrial output registered a new record high, 1.2% above the last record reached in December 2005. On a three-month moving average basis, industrial output grew by 0.9% and 0.6% in April and May, respectively. Industrial production expanded by 4.8% in May, compared to the same month last year, after a 1.7% fall in April, according to the same comparison basis. In the first five months of the year, industrial output expanded by 3.3%, compared to the same period last year, which confirms the recovery trend started in the last quarter of 2005. This result confirms the expectation that industrial output in 2006 is expected to outperform 2005 growth. On a twelve-month trailing basis, industrial production was kept unchanged at 2.6% in April and May, close to the March result. Industrial output recovery observed in the last months was already expected, since the lagged effects of the monetary easing implemented since September 2005 start to materialize with more intensity. Moreover, the adjustment of inventories, started in the second half of 2005, seems to be over. Leading and coincident indicators suggest industrial output will contract in June, on a month-on-month seasonally adjusted basis, but expand on a three-month moving average basis. 
5. Disaggregated industrial data show that durable consumer goods and capital goods grew by 8.1% and 5.9%, respectively, in May, compared to the same month last year. Intermediate goods output, which had been expanding at a slower pace than other categories, grew a month-on-month seasonally adjusted 1.9% in May. More homogeneous expansion among all use categories suggests robust industrial growth. In addition, on a twelve-month trailing basis, capital goods production has outperformed that observed in 2005, in line with the last FGV survey, which revealed that participants are more likely to invest in 2006 than they did in the previous year. In fact, in the year through May, capital goods production grew by 6.6%, compared to the same period last year. Durable goods production expanded at more intense pace (10.2%), reflecting, among other factors, the recovery of real earnings and the expansion of credit. 
6. The unemployment rate decreased from 10.4% in April to 10.2% in May, the same level reached in May 2005. The average unemployment rate declined 0.4 p.p. in the year through May, compared to the same period last year, notwithstanding the 1.3% increase in labor force. In addition, the 2006 average is a record low, since the start of the new series. Evidences suggest a continuous improvement in the labor market, in line with the consolidation of macroeconomic stability. This improvement positively impacted the purchase power of workers, which increased a month-on-month 1.3% in May, and significant 7.7%, compared to the same month of 2005, partly reflecting the inflation deceleration in the period. According to the National Industry Confederation (CNI), manufacturing employment rose 0.3% in April and 0.4% in May, seasonally adjusted. Compared to the same periods last year, the expansion reached 0.8% and 1.1%, respectively. In the twelve months through May, the expansion totaled 2.0%. According to the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE), formal employment also continues the ongoing expansion. Formal employment grew a month-on-month seasonally adjusted 0.3% in May and 0.4% in April. However, in the twelve months through May, it increased by 5.1%, virtually unchanged compared to the April rate, mainly driven by the 7.8% expansion in civil construction. With the creation of 198,837 jobs in May (1.3 million in the last twelve months), year-to-date formal job creation increased to 768,343. 
7. IBGE seasonally adjusted data recorded a month-on-month 0.6% increase in retail sales for April, after a 1.6% rise in March. When compared to the same months of 2005, April and May sales expanded 7.5% and 7.3%, respectively. In the year through May, sales expanded by 6.0%, compared to the same period last year, for a 5.4% growth in the last twelve months. Compared to May 2005, seven out of eight retail categories expanded, with highlights to the furniture and appliances sales, which expanded 15.0%. This performance largely reflects expansion of sales that are more sensitive to income and employment, but it also mirrors the favorable dynamics of credit-sensitive goods. Sales expansion are expected to continue in the coming months, fostered by positive labor market and income developments, credit expansion and the monetary easing cycle, as well as by the recovery in consumer confidence and the expansionary impacts of the minimum wage rise. 
8. Installed capacity utilization in the manufacturing industry increased for the second consecutive month to 81.5% in May, from 81.0% in April, according to CNI data seasonally adjusted by the BCB. In the year through May, the average installed capacity utilization stood 1.2 p.p. below the levels registered in the same period of 2005. This decline partially reflects the improvements in the productive capacity. In fact, recent data regarding output, absorption of capital goods and civil construction inputs suggest the expansion of investments. In the year through May, capital goods absorption expanded by 10.9%, compared to the same period of 2005. The main contributors for this result were the increases in capital goods imports volume (29.4%) and in capital goods production (6.6%). Civil construction inputs expanded by 5.3%, according to the same comparison basis. Therefore, despite favorable prospects for aggregate demand expansion in the coming quarters, relevant supply unbalances are not anticipated. As stressed in previous Minutes, inflation trend is closely linked to current and prospective developments with regard to the expansion of supply to adequately meet demand conditions. 
9. The trade balance continues to present robust results in 2006, confirming previous Copom assessments regarding important structural changes in the Brazilian external trade. In the first half of 2006, trade balance reached U$S19.5 billion, virtually unchanged compared to the same period last year. In June, twelve-month trailing surplus reached US$44.6 billion, slightly above the previous month, but below the US$45.8 billion record high reached in March. This process was already expected and suggests the start of an adjustment dynamics for the trade flows. Even so, twelve-month trailing exports reached US$125.5 billion in June, a new record high for the series. Similarly, imports have also continued to outperform, reaching US$80.90 billion in June, according to the same comparison basis. As a consequence, robust external results are expected in 2006. The current account surplus stood at US$614.0 million in June, for a US$12.0 billion surplus in the twelve months through June, or 1.41% of GDP. 
10. Uncertainties regarding the length of the monetary policy tightening cycle in the US persist. Under these circumstances, although some accommodation has occurred in the last weeks, international markets are still subject to abrupt changes, with consequences for the composition of portfolios. More recently, these moves have heightened due to the increase of geopolitical tensions. This short-term instability reflected in the price of several currencies against the US dollar and the risk premium in several emerging countries. In Brazil, between the first and fourth weeks of May, the exchange rate increased to R$/US$2.37 from R$/US$2.07, and the country risk measured by the JP Morgan Embi+ increased to 284 b.p. from 214 b.p. Since then, the exchange rate and the country risk swung around R$/US$2.20 and 240 b.p., respectively. According to the Copom, the instability observed since the start of May does not represent a crisis, due to both the temporary causes and the solid domestic macroeconomic fundamentals. The continued disinflation, robust and persistent trade surpluses, accumulation of international reserves, adequate public sector's primary surpluses, improved public sector's debt profile and buyback of external debt have strengthened the domestic resilience to shocks. The improvement in domestic resilience to shocks reflected the evidence that the domestic economy has sustained the growth trend despite the long monetary adjustment process in course in the US. Therefore, the Copom continues to assign a low probability to a significant deterioration in international financial market conditions that could affect Brazilian external financing. 
11. Another concern regarding the international scenario is the oil prices, which lately reached record highs, after trending sideways at elevated levels. The recent hike reinforces the concern that oil prices may resist at levels above the previously expected. As in previous months, the future oil prices trajectory still encompasses great uncertainty, but a significant downturn in prices seems less likely to occur. Therefore, the scenario considered by the Copom, which attributes no change to domestic gasoline prices in 2006, has become less likely to occur, and therefore, the risks related to its materialization have increased significantly. In addition, apart from the effects of an increase in domestic fuel prices, the elevation in international oil prices affects the domestic economy through productive chains, such as the petrochemical, as well as through the deterioration of market inflation expectations. 
12. The inflation shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations utilized the following assumptions: 
a) The projection for gasoline prices adjustments in 2006 remained unchanged at 0%, on the other hand, the projection for bottled gas prices adjustments in 2006 increased to 0.1% from 0%, 
b) The projection for household electricity adjustments in 2006 decreased to 2.7% from 3.7%, while the projection for fixed line telephone adjustments in 2006 declined to –0.9% from 2.6%, 
c) For all regulated prices, the Copom decreased to 4.4% from 4.6% the adjustment projection for 2006. These items, according to the weights released by the IBGE, represent 33.63% of the total June IPCA, 
d) The projection for regulated prices inflation in 2007, based on the endogenous determination model, remained at 6.2%. This model considers the effects of seasonal components, of the exchange rate, of market prices inflation and of the IGP, 
e) The projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, using a Vector Autoregressive model based on the Selic and 180-day swap rates on the eve of the meeting, stood at –52 b.p. in the third quarter of 2006, reached –2 b.p. in the last quarter of 2006, and 57 b.p. in the last quarter of 2007. 
13. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the consolidated public sector primary surplus target of 4.25% of GDP in 2006 and 2007 will be achieved. The related assumptions considered in the previous meeting were maintained. 
14. Since the May meeting, median IPCA inflation expectations for 2006, compiled by the BCB’s Investors Relations Group (Gerin), decreased to 3.77% from 4.32%. This reduction was mainly driven by the incorporation of the May and June IPCA monthly results, significantly below the expected in the May meeting. Twelve-month ahead inflation expectations increased to 4.33% from 4.17%. For 2007, inflation expectations remained in line with the 4.50% target established by the CMN. As mentioned in previous Minutes, these developments suggest the consolidation of a more favorable long-term macroeconomic scenario. 
15. The 2006 inflation forecast under the benchmark scenario – which assumes the maintenance of the Selic rate at 15.25% and the exchange rate at R$/US$ 2.20 during the forecast period - decreased relative to the forecast presented in the May meeting, remaining below the 4.5% target established by the CMN for the year. The forecast based on the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange rate and Selic rate trajectories collected by Gerin on the eve of the Copom meeting – also declined relative to the May forecast and stood below the target for the year. For 2007, the benchmark forecast increased compared to May, but still remained below the 4.5% inflation target. On the other hand, the forecast under the market scenario remained virtually unchanged, and therefore, above the inflation target established by the CMN. 
16. The Copom reaffirms the view that current and expected inflation demonstrate that the monetary stance adopted since September 2004 has both contained short-term inflationary pressures and consolidated a more favorable long-term macroeconomic environment. Economic activity has recovered momentum at a pace consistent with supply conditions, such that it will not trigger significant inflationary pressures. In addition, despite continued volatility in international financial markets due to uncertainties regarding the monetary policy in developed countries and the record highs reached by oil prices, the external outlook remains favorable, particularly with regard to Brazilian external financing conditions. Therefore, a benign inflation environment continues to evolve, despite the likely reversal of favorable factors that subdued short-term inflation, and the increased risk stemming from important commodity prices. As in the May meeting, the Committee emphasizes that the main challenge for monetary policy is to ensure the consolidation of these favorable developments. 
17. The uninterrupted convergence of inflation to the target path and the resulting consolidation of a long lasting macroeconomic stability will contribute to the progressive reduction in perceived macroeconomic risk, a process already underway for several years. The scope for a reduction in real interest rates in the future will naturally follow. The Committee considers that its cautionary monetary policy stance has been critical to increasing the probability of inflation convergence to the target path. For this to materialize, however, it is important that forward-looking inflation indicators remain consistent with the recent benign inflation outlook. 
18. The Copom emphasizes that there are important lags in monetary policy transmission to economic activity and inflation. Since the start of the monetary easing cycle, in September 2005, the Committee has reduced the Selic rate by 450 basis points. The activity level has not completely mirrored the effects of the interest rates cuts, as well as the effects of the recent activity resumption on inflation have not completely materialized. 
19. In the coming months, employment and income expansions and credit growth will continue to bolster economic activity. As mentioned in the May Minutes, activity level should also reflect the effects of the new minimum wage and the fiscal impulse of the last quarter of 2005 and first half of 2006. Consequently, the effects of interest rates cuts will add up to other factors that will contribute to demand expansion. 
20. Given the existing incentives for expanding aggregate demand, the uncertainties surrounding the monetary policy transmission mechanisms, and the reduced difference between the current Selic rate and the medium-term equilibrium rate, the Copom understood that the maintenance of important achievements in disinflation and in preserving economic growth, with job creation and rising real incomes, may demand a more cautious monetary easing stance. This argument is even more relevant in light of the fact that the monetary policy decisions in the coming months will produce concentrated impacts for 2007. 
21. The Committee's members, therefore, unanimously decided to continue the monetary easing process begun in the September 2005 meeting, and reduce the Selic target rate to 14.75% p.a., without bias, and closely follow the evolution of the macroeconomic scenario until its next meeting, at which time it will define the next steps in its monetary policy strategy. 
22. Under an inflation-targeting regime, the monetary authority decides according to the prospective inflation, analyzing alternative scenarios for the main variables that determine price dynamics. Even considering that the recent heightened volatility in international financial markets may be transitory, it increased the uncertainty surrounding the future path of inflation, so that both the monetary authority’s assessment of scenarios and the coordination of private sector expectations became more difficult. In such an environment, the monetary authority must remain vigilant so that short-term pressures do not contaminate longer time horizons. In case of an exacerbation of the risk factors monitored by the Copom, the monetary policy strategy will be promptly adapted to the circumstances. 