1. IPCA inflation accelerated in the last quarter of 2006, averaging 0.37% up from 0.15% in the third quarter and 0.03% in the second quarter of last year. In December, inflation reached 0.48%, above the 0.31% recorded in November and slightly above expectations registered on the eve of the IPCA release, and also above the expectations that prevailed at the end of December. Twelve-month trailing inflation also accelerated in December, compared to 3.02% in November. Favorable developments in the last months contributed to reach an inflation of 3.14% in 2006, down from 5.69% in 2005, the lowest annual inflation since the adoption of the inflation targeting regime, in 1999. Market prices increased 2.57% in 2006 (tradable prices contributed 1.31%, while non-tradable prices accounted for 3.99%), whilst regulated prices increased 4.27%. Therefore, for the third consecutive year, inflation stood within the tolerance intervals established by the National Monetary Council. Inflation acceleration in December was due to the increase in regulated prices (0.83% up from 0.00% in November), mainly driven by the urban bus fares, and not completely offset by the decrease in market prices inflation (0.32% down from 0.45% in November). Amongst market prices, tradable prices inflation decreased to 0.40% in December down from 0.54% in November, while non-tradable prices decreased to 0.24% down from 0.37%. Services inflation stood at 0.19% in December, unchanged relative to November, and slightly below the 0.22% observed in December 2005. In 2006, services inflation decreased to 5.48%, down from 6.78% in 2005. Partial January data, already captured by the IPCA-15 and underlying inflation measures, suggest that the short-term increasing IPCA trend should intensify. Despite the recent inflation acceleration in the last months, the most likely scenario is that inflation evolves according to the targets path. 
2. Similarly to the headline result, IPCA core inflation measures calculated by the BCB also increased in December, on a month-on-month basis. Core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices increased to 0.34% in December, up from 0.23% in November and 0.30% in October. Smoothed trimmed means core increased to 0.38%, up from 0.27% in November and 0.32% in October, and continued to record the strongest rigidity among the three core measures. Conversely, after registering reduction in November to 0.12% down from 0.19% in October, the non-smoothed trimmed means core increased to 0.27% in December. Despite the recent increases, the cores continue to present a downward trend on a twelve-month basis, except for the core by exclusion, which slightly increased. According to the same comparison basis, the inflation cores recorded 3.56%, 4.63% and 2.76%, respectively, in December, compared to 3.52%, 4.68% and 2.83% in November. Similarly to the headline result, both the core inflation by exclusion and the non-smoothed trimmed means core stood below the central target in 2006. On the other hand, the smoothed core inflation has converged more slowly to the target, reaching 4.63% in 2006, and therefore, above the central target for the year. 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) inflation decelerated in the last two months of 2006, to 0.26% in December, down from 0.57% in November and 0.81% in October. This deceleration was mainly driven by wholesale price inflation. The Wholesale Price Index (IPA-DI) inflation cooled to 0.11% in December, down from 0.75% in November. On the other hand, both the INCC-DI and the IPC-DI increased in December, month-on-month. The downturn in IPA-DI was due to the deflation in agricultural prices in December (-0.66% down from 2.39% in November), after several consecutive increases, whilst industrial prices accelerated. As a consequence, the IGP-DI increased 3.79% in 2006, up from 1.22% in 2005. This acceleration was driven by wholesale price inflation, and more specifically, by the significant upturn in agricultural prices in the second half of the year. After several months of deflation (reaching -3.14% in the twelve months through April), the IPA-DI reached 4.29% in 2006. After recording –13.19% in the twelve months through March, the Agricultural IPA totaled 6.92% in the year. As highlighted in previous Copom Minutes, the effects of wholesale prices over consumer inflation will depend on prospective demand conditions and price-setters’ expectations for the future inflation path. 
4. Industrial production, according to IBGE month-on-month seasonally adjusted data, expanded by 1.0% in October and 0.8% in November. Compared to the same months last year, the increases totaled 4.9% and 4.2%, respectively. In the year through November, industrial production reached 3.1%, while on a twelve-month trailing basis, industrial output reached 3.0%, the third positive result according to the same comparison basis, and indicating industrial activity acceleration. On a three-month moving average basis, industrial production increased for the eightieth consecutive month in November. The expansion in manufacturing activity in November reached 14 out of the 23 activities with seasonally adjusted data, with highlights to other transportation equipment (10.1%) and beverages (4.8%). For December, leading and coincident indicators suggest accommodation of the trend, which should not surprise in light of the strong increment recorded in the preceding months. However, several incentive factors, including the monetary easing already implemented and the fiscal impulses, suggest that the expanding trend in industry shall accelerate in 2007. 
5. Disaggregated industrial data showed month-on-month seasonally adjusted expansions of 2.2% in capital goods production and 1.6% in intermediate goods production, after two months of contraction, but a 0.1% reduction in durable consumer goods production in November. Compared to the same month last year, all categories increased, with highlights to the expansions of durable consumer goods production (10.4%) and capital goods production (7.9%). In the year through November these use categories increased by 7.3% and 5.7%, respectively. The strong growth of durable consumer goods production reflects, among other factors, the recovery of real earnings and the expansion of credit. The expansion of capital goods production is due to positive prospects for domestic demand growth, and also to the influence of favorable international prices in the purchase of capital goods destined to several industrial sectors. 
6. Labor market performance remains positive, with decreasing unemployment rate, creation of formal jobs and higher purchase power of workers. The unemployment rate in the six main metropolitan areas reached 9.5% in November, compared to 9.8% in October and 9.6% in November 2005. Rio de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte and Porto Alegre metropolitan areas recorded the lowest unemployment rates for November months since the beginning of the IBGE series. The unemployment rate contracted in all the six metropolitan areas surveyed, except for Rio de Janeiro, which recorded stability. As a result, the average unemployment rate in the year through November was 0.2 percentage points higher than that of the same period last year, notwithstanding the 2.4% expansion in labor force. The number of employed people grew 2.2% in the year through November and 3.0% in the month, compared to the same month last year, indicating that the pace of jobs creation remains robust. Still in November, the purchase power of workers increased a month-on-month 0.6% and 5.7% over the same month last year, for a 4.3% expansion in the year through November. In addition, real payrolls increased 6.6% in the same period, an important factor for the growth of aggregate demand. According to the National Industry Confederation (CNI), manufacturing employment increased a month-on-month seasonally adjusted 0.5% both in October and in November, consolidating a five-consecutive-month expansion. Compared to the same months last year, manufacturing employment grew 3.2% and 3.9%, respectively. In the year through November, it reached 2.1%, compared to the same period last year. Regarding formal employment, data from the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) confirm the continuity of the ongoing expansion. In November, the number of jobs increased 0.4%, on a month-on-month seasonally adjusted basis. In the year through November, the number of jobs expanded by 4.9%, the same rate observed in the last twelve months, mainly driven by the expansions of 9.4% in civil construction and 6.0% in the retail sector. With the creation of 32,579 jobs in November, formal job creation reached 1,546,179 in 2006. In the twelve months through November, 1,259,460 jobs were created. 
7. Retail sales continued to expand in November 2006. IBGE data recorded a month-on-month seasonally adjusted 0.6% in retail sales for November and 0.5% for October. Compared to the same months of last year, retail sales grew 7.0% in October and 9.2% in November. In the year through November, retail sales expanded by 6.2%, mainly driven by furniture and domestic appliances sales (10.9%) and hyper- and supermarket sales (7.6%). The positive performance of retail sales is not restricted to income- and labor-sensitive items, but also comprises credit-sensitive items. Expanded retail sales, which include the sales of construction material and vehicles, motorcycles, parts and pieces, increased 10.2%, compared to November 2005 results, reflecting expansions of 10.4% and 12.2%, respectively, in the sales of these segments, fostered by positive credit conditions. In the year through November, expanded retail sales expanded by 6.5%. Retail sales expansion is expected to continue in 2007, boosted by positive labor market and income developments, credit expansion and the effects of the monetary easing cycle, as well as by the recovery in consumer confidence. 
8. Installed capacity utilization in the manufacturing industry reached 82.1% in November up from 82.0% in October, according to CNI data seasonally adjusted by the BCB. Considering non-seasonally adjusted data, the average installed capacity utilization through November stood 0.2 p.p. below that of the same period last year. Since July, utilization rates have been at higher levels than those observed in the same months of 2005. Disaggregated indicators compiled by the FGV show utilization rates at historically high levels for civil construction and capital goods, whose production has vigorously expanded. Despite industrial production growth, average utilization has shown relative stability, which reflects the improvements in the productive capacity. In fact, recent data regarding output and absorption of capital goods suggest a robust ongoing expansion of investments. In the year through November, the absorption of capital goods expanded by 9.2%, mainly driven by the increases in capital goods imports volume (24.0%) and in capital goods production (5.7%). Civil construction inputs expanded by 4.9%, according to the same comparison basis. Therefore, despite the ongoing aggregate demand expansion, relevant aggregate supply imbalances that could jeopardy the inflation targets are not anticipated in the coming quarters. As stressed in previous Copom Minutes, the inflation trajectory is closely linked to current and prospective developments with regard to the expansion of supply to adequately meet demand conditions. 
9. The trade balance continues to present robust results, confirming previous Copom assessments regarding important structural changes in the Brazilian external trade. In 2006, the trade balance reached US$46.1 billion, 3% above the level reached in 2005. This result was driven by the record results of exports (US$137.5 billion) and imports (US$91.4 billion). Despite significant, twelve-month trailing surplus through December was lower than the US$46.3 billion record high observed in October. As a result of domestic demand recovery, imports have outperformed on the margin, gradually compressing trade balance results. As a consequence, external results in 2007 are expected to be lower than those observed in 2005-2006, but still high for the Brazilian historical standards. The current account surplus stood at US$1.5 billion in November, reaching US$13.2 billion in the year, or 1.6% of GDP, for a US$14.0 billion surplus in the twelve months through November, or 1.5% of GDP. 
10. Regarding the international scenario, the uncertainties regarding the monetary policy stance in the US persist. Although additional interest rate increases cannot be discarded, the consensus points to the fact that the tightening cycle may have already ended. On the other hand, even though the recession scenario in the US economy seems to be less plausible, there are uncertainties about the magnitude of the US economy deceleration. The uncertainties regarding monetary policy in Europe and Japan also persist. However, it bears emphasizing, so far, the limited effects of the less clear international outlook observed in the last months, when the concerns stated above were already present, particularly with regard to the increased risk aversion, commodities prices trajectory, and lower international liquidity. In fact, after an up-tick in May, the sovereign risk reached historically low levels in the last months. This fact corroborates recurrent analysis, expressed in previous Press Releases and Inflation Reports, that the Brazilian economy is more resilient to external shocks. In this context, the Copom reaffirms that the continued disinflation, robust and persistent trade surpluses, adequate public sector's primary surpluses, the buildup of international reserves, improved public sector's debt profile and buyback of external debt have strengthened the domestic resilience to external shocks. Therefore, the Copom continues to assign low probability to a significant deterioration in international financial market conditions that could affect Brazilian external financing. 
11. Another concern regarding the international outlook, oil prices, has continued to dampen. Oil prices slightly decreased since the last Copom meeting, contributing to cool down uncertainties associated with its evolution and effects on the world economy. Oil prices are below the lowest prices observed in the last 18 months, due to the exceptionally mild winter in the Northern Hemisphere and apparent difficulties that Opec faced to control supply. In spite of the recent decrease, oil prices still present high volatility, reflecting, among other factors, geopolitical tensions and weather conditions. However, the scenario considered by the Copom, which attributes no change to domestic gasoline prices in 2007, has become more likely to occur, and the risks related to its materialization have decreased significantly. Despite the stability in domestic gasoline prices, changes in international oil prices affect domestic oil prices, for instance, through productive chains, such as the petrochemical, as well as through the deterioration of market inflation expectations. 
12. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations utilized the following assumptions: a) Compared to the values considered in the December Inflation Report, the projection for gasoline and bottled gas prices adjustments in 2007 were both changed to 0%; b) Considering the same comparison basis, the projections for household electricity and fixed telephone prices adjustments in 2007 were changed to 4.6% and 3.9%, respectively; c) The projection for regulated prices inflation in 2007 decreased to 4.5% from 4.8% (December Inflation Report). These items, according to the weights released by the IBGE, represent 31.04% of the total December IPCA; d) The projection for regulated prices inflation in 2008 was maintained at 5.6%, as presented in the December Inflation Report. This projection for regulated prices is based on the endogenous determination model. This model considers the effects of seasonal components, exchange rate change, market prices inflation and the IGP; e) The projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, using a Vector Autoregressive model based on the Selic and 180-day swap rates on the eve of the meeting, stood at 53 b.p. in the fourth quarter of 2007, reaching 70 b.p. in the last quarter of 2008. 
13. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the consolidated public sector primary surplus target of 4.25% of GDP in 2007 and 2008 will be achieved, adjusted by the possibility of a 0.5 p.p. reduction in this percentage due to the implementation of PPI (Investment Pilot Plan). The related assumptions considered in the previous meeting were maintained. 
14. Since the November Copom meeting, median IPCA inflation expectations for 2007, compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations Group (Gerin), decreased slightly to 4.07% from 4.10%. This decrease was mainly driven by lower inflation projected for the second and third quarters of the year. The twelve-month ahead inflation expectations decreased to 4.04% from 4.17%. For 2008, inflation expectations decreased to 4.0% from 4.3%. As mentioned in previous Minutes, these developments suggest the consolidation of a more favorable long-term macroeconomic scenario. 
15. The 2007 inflation forecast under the benchmark scenario – which assumes the maintenance of the Selic rate at 13.25% and the exchange rate at R$/US$2.15 during the forecast period – decreased compared to the values considered at the November Copom meeting, remaining below the 4.50% target established by the CMN for the year. The forecast based on the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin on the eve of the Copom meeting – also remained below the values considered in the November Copom meeting, and below the central target for the year. The projections for 2008, according to both scenarios, reduced relative to the November projections, remaining below the 4.50% target in the benchmark scenario, and above the 4.50% target in the market scenario. 
16. The Copom reaffirms the view expressed in previous Minutes, that besides containing short-term inflationary pressures, monetary policy has also contributed significantly for the consolidation of a favorable long-term macroeconomic environment. Economic activity data still do not suggest high likelihood of important pressures over short-run inflation. Imports expansion has contributed significantly to this process, complementing domestic production and, therefore, limiting potential inflationary effects of aggregate demand sustained growth. In addition, despite the prospects of lower liquidity in international markets, due to the interest rates increase in industrialized economies, the external outlook, particularly regarding Brazilian external financing, remains favorable even in a context of moderation in international growth. The favorable external outlook strengthened as international oil prices decreased significantly in the last weeks. Therefore, the prospects for the inflation trajectory remain benign. As in the November meeting, the Copom emphasizes that the main challenge of the monetary policy in this context is to guarantee the consolidation of future positive developments. 
17. The Copom evaluates that pressures stemming from food and regulated prices, mainly public transportation fares in some state capitals, have driven the short-term inflation increase. Since these effects have not exhausted yet, upcoming inflation indicators will likely reflect those increases. Due to the nature of such pressures, they are expected to be temporary, with decreasing intensity throughout time, without necessarily affecting longer-time horizons. However, the Copom will continue to manage the monetary policy stance so that the gains obtained in inflation control in recent years become permanent. In this respect, the Copom will carefully monitor the evolution of inflation and the several core inflation measures in the upcoming months, discriminating between one-off and persistent or generalized price increases, and promptly adjusting the monetary policy stance to the circumstances. 
18. The preservation of inflation rates in line with the targets path and the consolidation of a long-lasting stable macroeconomic scenario will contribute to the progressive reduction of macroeconomic risk perception underway. The scope for a reduction in real interest rates in the future will naturally follow as a consequence of this improved perception. The Copom evaluates that its cautious monetary policy stance has been critical to increasing the probability of inflation convergence to the targets path. For this to materialize, however, it is important that forward-looking inflation indicators remain consistent with the recent benign inflation outlook observed in the last quarters. 
19. The Copom emphasizes, once again, that there are important time lags in the transmission of monetary policy stance to economic activity and inflation. Since the beginning of the monetary easing cycle, in September 2005, the Selic rate has already been reduced by 650 b.p., with the greater part of the reduction concentrated in the second half of 2006. Consequently, the activity level has not completely mirrored the effects of the interest rates cuts, as well as the effects of the economic activity resumption on inflation have not completely materialized. Therefore, the evaluation of alternative monetary policy stances should necessarily focus on the prospective inflation scenario and its risks, instead of current inflation indicators. 
20. During the coming months, employment and income expansions and credit growth will continue to bolster economic activity. As mentioned in the November Copom Minutes, activity level should also reflect the effects of governmental transfers and other fiscal impulses occurred in 2006 and expected for this year. Consequently, the lagged effects of interest rates cuts on an increasingly robust aggregate demand will add up to other factors that will continue to contribute to this expansion. 
21. Given the reasons stated above, the Copom considered again, as in its three previous meetings, the convenience of reducing the Selic target by 25 basis points. The Copom members consensually concluded that several factors would justify such decision, and that it would contribute to increase the total adjustment to be implemented. However, there was no consensus that the lower pace of the monetary easing should start at the present meeting. Three members of the Committee voted for a 50-basis-point reduction in the Selic target, considering that the current balance of risks justified such decision. 
22. On the other hand, the majority of the members of the Copom emphasized that the information available at that moment justified a change in the pace of the ongoing monetary easing process. Given the existing incentives for expanding aggregate demand, the uncertainties surrounding the monetary policy transmission mechanisms, the lower distance between the current Selic rate and the medium-term equilibrium interest rates, and the interest rate cuts implemented since September 2005, these Copom members understood that the preservation of important achievements in disinflation and in preserving economic growth, with job creation and rising real income, demanded a more cautious monetary easing stance. This argument is even more relevant considering the signs of heated aggregate demand, the short-term inflation pressures and the fact that the monetary policy decisions should have concentrated effects in the second half of 2007 and 2008, progressively. 
23. Therefore, the Copom decided to reduce in the Selic target by 25 basis points to 13.00% p.a., without bias. Five votes were for the Copom monetary policy action, while three votes were in favor of reducing the Selic target by 50 basis points. 
24. Under an inflation-targeting regime, the monetary authority decides according to inflation prospects, analyzing alternative scenarios for the main variables that determine price dynamics. The international scenario remains favorable, but new elements of uncertainty came up. On the other hand, a set of price pressures, apparently temporary, arises when domestic demand already expands robustly. In such an environment, the monetary authority must remain vigilant, so that short-term uncertainties do not contaminate longer time horizons. Evidently, in case of an exacerbation of the risk factors monitored by the Copom, the monetary policy strategy will be promptly adapted to the circumstances.