1. IPCA inflation totaled in April and May 0.25% and 0.28%, respectively, down from 0.37% in March. As a consequence, inflation through May stood at 1.79%, above the 1.75% rate reached in the same period of last year. Regulated prices totaled 1.35%, down from 2.70%, according to the same comparison basis, contributing to contain inflation, once market prices reached 2.01% in the period, above the 1.27% observed in the same period of 2006. Twelve-month trailing inflation through May reached 3.18% (compared to 4.23% through May 2006), while market prices increased 3.32% and regulated prices grew by 2.88% (2.48% and 8.24%, respectively, through May 2006). Month-on-month inflation deceleration in April and May was a result of market prices inflation decline (0.19% and 0.25%, respectively, down from 0.44% in March), in contrast with regulated prices inflation acceleration (0.39% and 0.35% in April and May, respectively, up from 0.21% in March). In addition, tradable goods price inflation accelerated 0.25% and 0.48%, respectively, in April and May, up from 0.21% in March, in contrast with non-tradable price inflation, which totaled 0.13% and 0.03%, down from 0.66%, according to the same comparison basis. Services inflation reached 0.18% in April and 0.26% in May, totaling 4.87% in the last twelve months. Dampened inflationary pressures at the end of 2006 and at the start of 2007 indicate that inflation should evolve according to the targets path. 
2. IPCA core inflation measures did not follow the declining headline inflation behavior. Core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices increased month-on-month 0.29% in April and 0.33% in May, up from 0.23% in March. On the other hand, smoothed trimmed means core stood at 0.29%, virtually unchanged relative to March, while the non-smoothed trimmed means core increased 0.28% in April and 0.30% in May, up from 0.24% in March. In the year through May, core inflation by exclusion and smoothed and non-smoothed trimmed means core measures recorded 1.80%, 1.51% and 1.40%, respectively, below the rates observed at the same period of 2006. In the last twelve months, smoothed trimmed means core totaled 3.68% in May and 3.86% in April, down from 3.98% in March. On the other hand, on a twelve-month trailing basis, core inflation by exclusion and non-smoothed trimmed means core increased in April and May, relative to March, but stood below the 4.5% central target for 2007. 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) inflation averaged 0.29% in the first quarter of the year (0.07% in the same period of 2006), but decelerated in April and May, averaging 0.15%. This deceleration influenced similarly the behavior of two out of the three great IGP-DI components: the Consumer Price Index-Brazil (IPC-Br) reached 0.28%, down from 0.50%, while the Wholesale Price Index (IPA-DI) declined to –0.01%, down from 0.21%. On the other hand, the Civil Construction National Index, which averaged 0.31% in the first quarter of the year, averaged 0.81% in the two months ended in May, due to pressures stemming from raw material costs and wage adjustments. In the last twelve months through May, the IGP-DI reached 4.38%, up from –0.14% in the same period of 2006. In light of the 3.12% elevation of the IPC-Br in the last twelve months through May, the IGP-DI increase in the same period was, to a large extent, influenced by the IPA-DI and the INCC changes, which totaled 4.76% and 5.18%, respectively. The IPA-DI acceleration was mainly driven by agricultural prices, which increased 9.13%, while industrial prices only increased 3.46%. As highlighted in previous Copom Minutes, the effects of wholesale prices over consumer inflation will depend on prospective demand conditions and price-setters’ expectations for the future inflation path. 
4. Despite recording some accommodation in April, industrial output continues to present robust growth trend. On a three-month moving average basis, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, industrial output grew 0.6%, compared to the previous month, maintaining the growth pace observed in March, and registered the thirteenth consecutive expansion. Compared to the same month of last year, industrial output grew 6%, the highest rate observed since June 2005 under this comparison basis, reflecting the expansion in 20 out of the 27 activities surveyed. In the last twelve months, industrial output expanded by 3.3%, with 3.1% for manufacturing industry and 5.7% for mining. For May, the few leading and coincident indicators available for industrial production suggest the continuity of the ongoing expansion. The several incentive factors to economic activity, including the monetary easing already implemented, suggest that the expanding trend in industry shall continue in the upcoming months. 
5. Disaggregated industrial data showed month-on-month seasonally adjusted expansion of 15.4% in capital goods production and 4.2% in the production of intermediate goods. Compared to the same month last year, capital goods production expanded by 17.4%, while intermediate goods production increased by 5.3%. According to the same comparison basis, durable goods production increased by 5.4%. The dynamics of capital goods production reflects the consolidation of positive prospects for domestic demand growth and the influence of favorable international prices in some sectors. In addition, the expansion of intermediate goods production in the first four months of the year suggests a more generalized acceleration in industrial activity. 
6. In line with the usual seasonal pattern at the start of the year, the unemployment rate increased in the first months of 2007 to 10.1% in March and April up from 8.4% in December 2006. However, in the year through April, the average unemployment rate stood 0.2 p.p. below that observed at the same period last year. The purchasing power of workers increased 5% according to the same comparison basis, a record high for the series. Real payrolls increased 8% in the year through April, compared to the same period last year, an important factor sustaining the growth of aggregate demand. According to the National Industry Confederation (CNI) data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, manufacturing employment increased month-on-month 0.4% in April and March, after totaling 0.2% in February, reaching a record high for the series started in 2003. In addition, manufacturing employment expanded by 3.1% in April, compared to the same month of last year. Regarding formal employment, data from the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) confirms the continuity of expansion in April, with the creation of 302 thousand new jobs (0.5% growth on a month-on-month seasonally adjusted basis ) and 1,361 thousand jobs in the last twelve months. As a consequence, in the year through April, as well as on a twelve-month trailing basis, formal job creation grew 4.8%, with highlights for civil construction (7.5%) and mining (4.8%). 
7. Retail sales increased 1.1% month-on-month in March, after expansions of 0.4% in February and 2% in January, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE. With this result, retail sales expanded 2.8% in the first quarter, quarter-on-quarter. Compared to the same quarter of 2006, retail sales expansion reached 9.7% in the first quarter of the year, outpacing the 7.0% expansion recorded in the last quarter of 2006. For this robust performance of retail sales, which indicates strong growth of domestic demand, contributed both items more sensitive to payroll expansion, such as “other items of personal and domestic use” (21.8% expansion, according to this comparison basis) and those that are usually more sensitive to credit conditions, such as furniture and domestic appliances (20.5% expansion in the period). Expanded retail sales, which include the sales of civil construction material and vehicles, motorcycles, parts and pieces, increased 13.2% in March, compared to the same month of 2006, the ninth consecutive month that expanded retail sales exceeded retail sales. For the rest of the year, it is expected the continuity of retail sales expansion, boosted by the increase in employment and income, credit expansion, the monetary easing process and by the recovery of consumer confidence. 
8. Installed capacity utilization in the manufacturing industry averaged 81.0% in the year through April, up from 79.1% in the same period of 2006, according to CNI data without seasonal adjustment. The installed capacity utilization rate, according to CNI data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, stood at 81.8% in April, 3.1 p.p. above that observed in the same month of 2006, and 0.5 p.p. below the record high for the series observed in July 2004. According to CNI data seasonally adjusted by the CNI, installed capacity utilization reached 82.6% in April, a new record high for the series. Disaggregated indicators calculated by CNI indicated that 15 out of 19 sectors exceeded the average installed capacity utilization, compared to eleven sectors at the same month of last year. This dynamics reflects the intensification of economic activity, although recent data relative to production and absorption of capital goods indicate that investment expansion remains robust. In the year through April, the absorption of capital goods robustly increased 20.1%, compared to the same period of 2006. This result reflects the increase in capital goods imports (32% in volume), as well as capital goods production (15.4%). The production of inputs for civil construction increased 3.5%. In light of the recent installed capacity utilization rates, the continuity of investment expansion will be essential to avoid relevant imbalances between aggregate supply and demand. As stressed in previous Copom Minutes, the inflation trajectory is closely linked to current and prospective developments with regard to the expansion of supply of goods and services to adequately meet demand conditions. 
9. The trade balance continues to present robust performance, confirming the evaluations based upon Inflation Reports and previous Copom Minutes that depict important structural changes in the Brazilian foreign trade. After reaching in 2006 a US$ 46.1 billion record high, a 3.2% increase over the 2005 result, the trade balance continuous to register vigorous surpluses that encourage analysts to review positively their forecasts. In the year through May, the trade surplus reached US$16.9 billion, a 9.3% increase relative to May 2006. Exports rose 21.2%, to US$60.1 billion, while imports increased 26.7% to US$43.2 billion. As observed in previous Copom Minutes, imports have been growing more rapidly than exports at the margin, due not only to higher level of economic activity, but also to the strengthening of the BRL, which points to a healthy adjustment process of the trade balance. 
10. With regard to the international scenario, uncertainties surrounding the monetary policy stance in the US persist. Signals that inflation could be running above the FOMC comfort zone indicate that expectancies of an easing cycle starting this year may have been premature. Moreover, additional interest rate increases in the US cannot be discarded. Similarly, the possibility of stronger-than-expected economic deceleration and its potential effects over the other worldwide economies cannot be ignored. On the other hand, the strengthening of economic activity in Europe and the continuity of the robust expansion of the major countries in Asia have so far compensated for the moderate economic deceleration in the US. The maintenance of growth rates at historically high levels has caused higher inflationary pressures especially over raw materials and food prices. In this context of robust global growth, the economy and prices of Brazilian assets have shown both remarkable resilience to the fluctuations in international financial markets, thanks to the improvement in economic fundamentals in the recent years, and to a very benign behavior of export prices. In this sense, in addition to showing more resilience to changes in international markets sentiment, the Brazilian economy trails a growth cycle with price stability. Considering all this factors, the Copom continues to consider that the international scenario is favorable. 
11. Oil prices, another external source of uncertainty, rose since the last Copom meeting and still present volatility. The recent levels of international prices of this commodity seem to be reflecting both structural shifts in global demand for energy and recurrent episodes of geopolitical tensions. Despite significant risks inherent to forecasts on future oil prices trajectory, the main scenario considered by the Copom, which attributes no change to domestic gasoline prices in 2007, continues plausible. 
12. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations utilized the following assumptions: 
a) Compared to the values considered in the April Copom meeting, the projection for gasoline and bottled gas prices adjustments in 2007 were both maintained at 0%, 
b) The projection for electricity and fixed telephone price adjustments in 2007 were modified relative to the April forecasts. The new projections for electricity and fixed telephone are –0.9% and 3.3% respectively, 
c) The projection for regulated prices inflation in 2007 decreased to 3.6% from 4.2% (projection of the April Copom meeting). These items, according to the weights released by the IBGE, represent 30.99% of the total May IPCA, 
d) The projection for regulated prices inflation in 2008 was also changed, to 4.8%. This projection is based on the endogenous determination model for regulated prices. This model considers the effects of seasonal components, exchange rate change, market prices inflation and the IGP, 
e) The projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, using a Vector Autoregressive model based on the Selic and 180-day swap rates on the eve of the meeting, estimates a 6 bps in the fourth quarter of 2007, reaching 70 bps in the last quarter of 2008. 
13. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the consolidated public sector primary surplus target of 3.8% of GDP in 2007 and 2008 will be achieved, adjusted by the possibility of a 0.45 p.p. reduction in this percentage due to the implementation of PPI (Investment Pilot Program). The related assumptions considered in the previous meeting were maintained. 
14. Since the April Copom meeting, median IPCA inflation expectations for 2007, compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations Group (Gerin), decreased to 3.5% from 3.8%. This reduction was mainly driven by a decrease of inflation expectations for the third quarter of 2007. The twelve-month ahead inflation expectations decreased to 3.37% down from 3.64%. For 2008, inflation expectations remained at 4%. As mentioned in previous Minutes, these developments suggest the consolidation of a more favorable long-term macroeconomic scenario. 
15. Considering the hypotheses under the benchmark scenario – which assumes the maintenance of the Selic rate at 12.5% and the exchange rate at R$1.95//US$ during the forecast period – the projection for the 2007 IPCA reduced compared to the values considered at the April Copom meeting, remaining below the 4.5% target established by the CMN for the year. The forecast based on the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin on the eve of the Copom meeting – situated below the values considered in the April Copom meeting and below the central target for the year. The projection for 2008, based on the benchmark scenario, stayed relatively stable in relation to the April projection, remaining below the 4.5% target. Under the market scenario, the projection still remains above the 4.5% target. 
16. The Copom reaffirms the view expressed in previous Minutes, that in addition to containing short-term inflationary pressures, monetary policy has also contributed significantly for the consolidation of a favorable long-term macroeconomic environment. Economic activity data point to strengthened demand expansion, but still do not suggest high probability of important pressures over inflation in the short-run. Imports expansion has contributed significantly to this process, complementing domestic production and, therefore, limiting potential inflationary effects of aggregate demand sustained growth. Moreover, despite the uncertainties regarding the continuity of the strong growth recently observed in the international economy, the prospects of lower liquidity in important international markets, and the volatility increase in the global markets, the external outlook remains favorable. Particularly regarding Brazilian external financing, the combination of significant trade surpluses and increasing capital inflows suggests that the balance of payments will continue to perform robustly. Therefore, the prospects for the inflation trajectory remain benign. As in recent meetings, the Copom emphasizes that the main challenge of the monetary policy in this context is to guarantee the consolidation of positive developments anticipated for the future. 
17. The Copom evaluates that the more benign behavior of inflation in the recent months, in contrast with relatively high monthly rates that had persisted since the end of 2006, confirms the convergence of inflation trajectory to the targets path. The emergency of global inflationary pressures still does not present risks for the domestic inflation trajectory in the short run, but a heated demand could increase the pass-through of wholesale prices pressures to consumer prices. In this sense, the Copom will continue to manage the monetary policy stance so that the gains obtained in inflation control in recent years become permanent. In this respect, the Copom will carefully monitor the evolution of inflation and the several core inflation measures in the upcoming months, discriminating between one-off and persistent or generalized price increases, and promptly adjusting the monetary policy stance to the circumstances. 
18. The preservation of inflation rates in line with the targets path and the consolidation of a long-lasting stable macroeconomic scenario will contribute to the progressive reduction of macroeconomic risk perception underway. The scope for a reduction in real interest rates in the future will naturally follow as a consequence of this improved perception. The Copom evaluates that its cautious monetary policy stance has been critical to increase the probability of inflation convergence to the targets path. For this to materialize, however, it is important that forward-looking inflation indicators remain consistent with the recent benign inflation outlook observed in the last quarters. 
19. The Copom emphasizes, once again, that there are important time lags in the transmission of monetary policy stance to economic activity and inflation. Since the beginning of the monetary easing cycle, in September 2005, the Selic rate has already been reduced by 725 b.p., with the bulk of the reduction concentrated in the last nine months. Consequently, the activity level has not completely mirrored the effects of the interest rates cuts, as well as the effects of the economic activity resumption on inflation have not completely materialized. Therefore, the evaluation of alternative monetary policy stances should necessarily focus on the prospective inflation scenario and its risks, instead of current inflation indicators. 
20. During the coming months, employment and income expansions and credit growth will continue to bolster economic activity. As mentioned in recent Copom Minutes, activity level should also reflect the effects of governmental transfers and other fiscal impulses occurred in 2006 and expected for the next quarters of the year. Consequently, the lagged effects of interest rates cuts on an increasingly robust aggregate demand will add up to other factors that will continue to contribute to this expansion. These issues become even more relevant considering the signs of heated aggregate demand, and the fact that the monetary policy decisions should have limited effects in 2007 and predominant impacts in 2008. 
21. In light of the existing incentives for expanding aggregate demand, the uncertainties surrounding the monetary policy transmission mechanisms, the lower distance between the current Selic rate and the medium-term equilibrium interest rates, and the interest rate cuts implemented since September 2005, the Copom members understood that the preservation of important achievements in disinflation and in preserving economic growth, with job creation and rising real income, demands a cautious monetary easing stance. 
22. The Copom evaluated that, since the last meeting, influences of internal and external factors on the balance of risks for the expected inflation trajectory exacerbated, and in opposite directions. External sector, acting importantly to widen aggregate supply, continues to influence inflation prospects in a predominantly benign way. On the other hand, expansion of domestic demand may increase the risks to inflation dynamics on the medium-run. 
23. Some participants of the Committee understood that, considering the extension of the easing process already implemented, the remaining uncertainties regarding the lagged impacts of the monetary easing, the expected behavior of the other sustaining factors of the expenditure, such as income growth, in a scenario of solid expansion of domestic demand for tradable and non-tradable goods and services, and of economic activity strengthening, the maintenance of the 25 b.p. reduction pace in the Selic target rate would contribute to extend the easing process over time. 
24. However, the majority of the Committee argued that the contribution of the external sector for the consolidation of a benign outlook for inflation could be higher than previously expected, especially by controlling the prices of tradable goods and by increasing investments in a heated demand environment. Such contribution is favoring the equilibrium between aggregate demand and domestic supply growth rates at a pace in line with monetary policy decisions, without compromising the convergence for the inflation targets trajectory. Therefore, five members of the Committee understood that the risk balance to the evolution of future inflation would justify a 50 b.p. reduction in the Selic target rate. 
25. Given the reasons stated above, the Copom decided to continue the monetary easing cycle and reduced the Selic target rate to 12.00% p.a., without bias. Five votes were for the Copom monetary policy action, while two votes were in favor of reducing the Selic target by 25 basis points. 
26. Under an inflation-targeting regime, the monetary authority decides according to inflation prospects, analyzing alternative scenarios for the main variables that determine price dynamics and the balance of risks associated to the forecasts. Despite the remaining uncertainties regarding the US economy, the international scenario remains favorable, and benefits the external sector contribution for the maintenance of a benign inflationary outlook. On the other hand, a set of price pressures arises when domestic demand expands vigorously, backing-up the economic activity recovery. This expansion encompasses some sectors little exposed to external competition, when the effects of important incentive factors, such as the monetary easing already implemented, are not fully perceived. In such environment, the monetary authority must remain vigilant, so that short-term uncertainties do not contaminate longer time horizons. 