1. IPCA inflation increased 0.30% in October, up from 0.18% in September, totaling 3.30% in the year through October, compared to 2.33% in the same period of last year. Twelve-month trailing inflation reached 4.12% in October, up from 3.26% in the same period of 2006. The acceleration of consumer price inflation essentially mirrors the behavior of market prices, which have increased more rapidly than regulated prices in 2007, a reversal in the dynamics observed in the recent years. In fact, market prices and regulated prices increased 4.24% and 1.20% in the year through October, and 5.05% and 2.04% in the last twelve months. Despite the BRL appreciation in 2007, amongst market prices, the prices of tradable goods showed the sharpest acceleration. In the twelve months through October, tradable goods inflation totaled 4.47%, up from 0.77% observed in the same period of last year, whereas non-tradable goods inflation reached 5.60%, up from 4.49% in the same period of 2006. Notwithstanding the recent occurrence of inflation developments less benign than previously anticipated, price dynamics still continue to be in line with the targets path. 
2. Similarly to headline inflation, the three IPCA core inflation measures accelerated in October. The core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices and smoothed and non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation measures increased 0.40%, 0.43% and 0.35% in October, up from 0.25%, 0.34% and 0.19% in September. It bears emphasizing that headline inflation acceleration in the year was followed by only one of the three core inflation measures. Core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices shows slight increase in the year through October (3.11%, against 2.97% in 2006), smoothed trimmed means core inflation decelerated (3.25%, against 3.95% in 2006) and the non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation increased more significantly (2.79%, against 2.37% in 2006). On a twelve-month trailing basis, despite remaining below the central target, all inflation core measures accelerated in October, compared to September, standing at levels remarkably higher than the record lows reached in previous months. 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) inflation dampened in October (0.75%) after reaching high rates for two consecutive months (1.17% in September and 1.39% in August), but increased again in November (1.05%). As a result, IGP-DI inflation increased 6.32% in the year through November, up from 3.52% in the same period of last year. On a twelve-month trailing basis, inflation measured by IGP-DI totaled 6.60%, up from 3.59% in 2006. The strong IGP-DI increase reflects both the behavior of the Consumer Price Index-Brazil (IPC-Br), which totaled 4.53% in the last twelve months through November, up from 1.88% in the same period of 2006, and also of the IPA-DI, whose variation totaled 7.51%, up from 4.04% in the same periods, respectively. The Civil Construction National Index (INCC) increased 5.92% (5.05% in the same period of 2006), suggesting some persistence of inflation as measured by the INCC. Regarding agricultural IPA, prices reached 18.93% in the twelve months through November (16.72% in October). On its turn, industrial prices continue to present less unfavorable behavior, but also record significant acceleration in the last twelve months (3.76%, up from 2.71% in 2006) and higher monthly rates since August. As highlighted in previous Copom Minutes, the effects of wholesale prices over consumer inflation will depend on current and prospective demand conditions and price-setters’ expectations for the future inflation path. 
4. On a three-month moving average basis, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, industrial output grew 1.2% in October, the fourteenth consecutive expansion according to this comparison basis, an evidence of the solid performance of industrial sector. Still considering the seasonally adjusted series, after the 0.6% fall observed in September, industrial output recorded 2.8% robust growth month-on-month in October and 10.3% compared to October 2006. On a twelve-month trailing basis, industrial output grew 5.3%, and in the year through October, 5.9%. On its turn, manufacturing industry production reached 5.2% in the last twelve months (5.9% in 2007), while mining industry production expanded by 6.1% (5.6% in 2007). For November, statistical adjustments due to the lesser number of working days, compared to the same month of previous years, could determine the retreat of the industrial production index. However, the trend points to the continuity of the industrial production expansion cycle, which will continue to be favored by the several incentive factors that influence economic activity, such as employment and credit expansion, the monetary easing already implemented, the fiscal impulse and, in some sectors, the reduced inventory levels. 
5. Among the use categories, the production of intermediate goods increased by 2.7% in October, of capital goods, 1.8%, and of consumer goods, 1.5%, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE. The acceleration of intermediate goods production can be, to some extent, associated to signs of inputs shortage, as shown by the Manufacturing Industry Outlook Survey, carried out by the Getúlio Vargas Foundation (FGV). The dynamism of durable consumer goods production, which expanded 8.7% in 2007, reflects, predominantly, the remarkable improvement in credit conditions, when compared to historical patterns. Regarding capital goods production, the 18.8% steady expansion in 2007 (16.9% in the last twelve months) is, to a large extent, due to the consolidation of positive prospects for the continuity of domestic demand growth, which has reflected both the improvement of income and the expansion of credit, underpinned by the perception of macroeconomic stability consolidation. Finally, it bears emphasizing that 75% of the industrial activities surveyed by the IBGE expanded in October. 
6. Labor market continues to present favorable developments. The unemployment rate in the six metropolitan regions covered by the Monthly Labor Survey (PME) maintained a downward trend and reached 8.7% in October, 1.1 p.p. below that observed in 2006, and a record low for the month reached after the methodological recalculation of the survey (May 2002). Therefore, in the year through October the average unemployment rate stood 0.6 p.p. below that observed in the same period last year. The unemployment rate seasonally adjusted by the BCB also reduced, reaching 8.9%, a record low for the series. After retreating for three consecutive months, the purchasing power of workers increased month-on-month 0.3% and 0.5% in September and October, respectively, and 2.5% and 1.2% compared to the same months last year. As a consequence, real payrolls expanded by 6.4% in the year through October, compared to the same period of last year, a key driver for sustained aggregate demand growth. According to the National Industry Confederation (CNI) data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, manufacturing employment increased month-on-month 0.5% in October and 4.6% compared to October 2006. Regarding formal employment, data from the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) confirm the continuity of strong expansion. In October, job creation grew month-on-month seasonally adjusted 0.6%, expanding by 5.0% both in the year through October and in the last twelve months, with highlights to employment expansions in the construction industry (7.5%) and in the retail sector (6.0%). In absolute terms, the creation of formal jobs exceeds 1.8 million in the year through October and 1.5 million in the last twelve months. 
7. In line with the positive developments in labor market, and with credit expansion, retail sales continue to record positive performance, indicating that the pace of domestic demand growth remains robust, and signs of cooling cannot be perceived. Retail sales increased month-on-month 1.1% in August and 1.4% in September, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, a record high for the series initiated in 2000. Compared to the same month of 2006, retail sales increased by 10.3% in August and 8.5% in September. In the year, retail sales grew robustly by 9.6%, and in the last twelve months, by 8.9%. The steady growth of retail sales in the year reflects the performance of both the sectors more sensitive to income and employment expansions and those more sensitive to credit conditions. In fact, in the year through September, it bears emphasizing the expansion in the sales of “furniture and domestic appliances” (16.3%), and “fabric, clothing and shoes” (10.1%). Amongst expanded retail sales, which include the sales of “vehicles, motorcycles, parts and pieces” and “construction material”, the strong growth of the first group should be highlighted (22.9% in the year). For the next quarters, the continuity of the current expanding cycle is expected, whose boosting factors will continue to be employment and income growth, credit expansion and the increase in consumer confidence. 
8. The installed capacity utilization rate in the manufacturing industry reached an 83.1% record high in October (82.3% in September), according to CNI data seasonally adjusted by the BCB. Without the seasonal adjustment, the rate stood 2.2 p.p. above the level registered in the same month of 2006, while the average installed capacity utilization rate in the year through October reached 1.7 p.p. above the observed in the same period of 2006, and 0.9 p.p. and 1.5 p.p. above the average rates registered in the same periods of 2004 and 2005, respectively. The reduction of idle capacity occurs in several sectors, despite the significant increase of investment. Indeed, in the year through October, the absorption of capital goods increased firmly (20.9%), due to the significant growth of capital goods imports (35.3% in volume), as well as of capital goods production (18.8%). Furthermore, the production of construction inputs increased 5.0% in the year through October, and shows acceleration at the margin. The most recent data indicate that although investment has been contributing to soften the elevation of capacity utilization rates, it has not been sufficient to stop this process. Considering the recent behavior of capacity utilization rates, the acceleration of investment projects, and particularly their timely maturation, will be crucial to avoid relevant mismatches regarding the evolution of aggregate supply and demand. As stressed in previous Copom Minutes, the inflation trajectory is closely linked to current and prospective developments related to the expansion of supply of goods and services, to adequately meet demand conditions. 
9. The trade balance continues to present robust performance in 2007, despite the expected deceleration at the margin, in line with the evaluations present in Inflation Reports and previous Copom Minutes about important structural changes in the Brazilian foreign trade. In the year through November, the trade surplus reached US$36.4billion, a 12.1% decrease relative to the same period of 2006. Exports and imports rose to US$146.4 billion and US$110.0 billion, equivalent to 16.6% and 30.8% growth, respectively, compared to the same period of 2006. As highlighted in previous Copom Minutes, imports have been growing faster than exports, both due to the strengthening of the BRL and to the robust economic activity in the country. The current account surplus reached US$5.6 billion in the year through October and US$7.4 billion in twelve months (0.6% of GDP). 
10. Regarding the external scenario, high uncertainties still remain, particularly concerning the effects of the crisis in the US subprime mortgages market over global economic activity, as well as over the international financial market. Volatility and risk aversion indicators worsened again since the last Copom meeting. Despite recently issued data were, to some extent, positive, economic activity in Europe and in the US is expected to slow down. Consequently, the scenario points out to an easing monetary stance in mature economies, at different paces in each region. On the other hand, strong economic growth of main Asian emerging economies, which were apparently little affected by the US mortgage crisis, as well as the strength and steadiness of current expansion of other emerging economies, even under increasing inflationary pressures and tight monetary cycles, have been fundamental factors to offset the effects of US economic deceleration. The Brazilian economy, more specifically, does not seem to have been significantly affected by the recent turmoil, and should sustain its growth trajectory, essentially driven by domestic demand. 
11. Oil prices, a systematic source of international uncertainty, not only remained at historically high levels but also continued highly volatile. This behavior reflects, in addition to structural changes in global energy markets, recurrent geopolitical tensions. Despite the significant uncertainties inherent to expectations about the future trend for oil prices, the main scenario considered by the Copom remains plausible, in which domestic gasoline prices remain unchanged in 2007. However, apart from the trajectory of domestic gasoline prices, one should recognize that the elevation of international oil prices impacts the domestic economy, both through productive chains, such as the petrochemical, as well as by the deterioration of inflation expectations. The prices of other commodities have also presented high volatility in the last months, reflecting the increased uncertainty about the prospects for global demand growth and the turmoil on global financial markets. In this context, the strong acceleration of food prices in several countries should also be highlighted, as it makes the control of inflation by several central banks a more difficult task. 
12. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations utilized the following assumptions: 
a) Compared to the values considered in the October Copom meeting, the projections for gasoline and bottled gas prices adjustments in 2007 were both maintained at 0%, 
b) Considering the previous meeting, the projections for electricity and fixed telephone prices adjustments in 2007 were changed to –6.0% and 0.8%, respectively, 
c) The projection for regulated prices variation in 2008 remained at 4.5%, unchanged relative to the October meeting. This projection is based on the endogenous determination model for regulated prices, which computes seasonal components, exchange rate changes, market prices inflation and the IGP variation, 
d) The projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, using a Vector Autoregressive model based on the Selic and 180-day swap rates, estimates a -1 bps spread in the fourth quarter of 2007, under the benchmark scenario. The swap rate trajectory points to a 47bps spread in the last quarter of 2008. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. 
13. Regarding fiscal policy, the projections assume the achievement of the 3.8% target for the consolidated public sector primary surplus in 2007 and 2008, adjusted by the possibility of a 0.45 p.p. reduction in this percentage due to the implementation of the PPI (Investment Pilot Program). The related assumptions considered in the previous meeting were maintained. 
14. Since the October Copom meeting, median IPCA inflation expectations for 2007, compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations Group (Gerin), slightly increased to 3.96%, up from 3.91%. This elevation was due to the addition of the October inflation result and the raise of expected inflation in December. Twelve-month ahead inflation expectations changed more significantly, to 3.95%, up from 3.83%, considering the composition of monthly inflation market expectations. For 2008, inflation expectations remained at 4.10%. 
15. Considering the hypotheses under the benchmark scenario – which assumes the maintenance of the Selic rate at 11.25% and the exchange rate at R$1.80/US$ during the forecast period – the projection for the 2007 IPCA increased compared to the value considered at the October Copom meeting, but remained below the 4.5% target established by the CMN for the year. According to the forecast based on the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin on the eve of the Copom meeting – IPCA inflation forecast for 2007 also increased compared to the value considered at the October Copom meeting, but remains below the central target for the year. The projection for 2008 based on both the benchmark and the market scenarios also increased in relation to the October meeting, but both remained below the 4.5% target. 
16. The Copom reaffirms the view expressed in previous Minutes, that in addition to containing short-term inflationary pressures, monetary policy has also contributed significantly for the consolidation of a favorable long-term macroeconomic environment. Economic activity data indicate that the intensity of demand expansion continue quite robust and can increase the probability of important pressures over inflation in the short-run. However, imports growth and the benign investment behavior, which continues to expand robustly, have contributed to slow down this process. Moreover, despite uncertainties regarding the continuity of the rapid growth recorded in the international economy in the last years and the volatility increase observed in global markets in the last months, the prospects for Brazilian external financing in the forecast period suggest, according to newly available information, that the balance of payments may not represent imminent risk to the inflation scenario. On the other hand, the relevant inflation increase both in mature and emerging economies in recent months evidences the intensification of the inflationary risks on the global outlook. Therefore, although inflation prospects remain in line with the targets trajectory, additional uncertainties surround the inflation path. The Copom emphasizes that the main challenge of monetary policy in this context is to guarantee the maintenance of positive results reached in the last years. 
17. The Copom evaluates that the probability that emerging local inflationary pressures will represent risks to the domestic inflation trajectory has increased, because the heated demand and market of factors can increase the pass-through of wholesale prices over consumer price inflation. The Committee understands that the prospects for this pass-through, as well as for the generalization of the pressures initially focused on consumer price inflation, depend mostly on inflation expectations, which remain carefully monitored. Additionally, although the external sector can restrain the inflationary pressures in the tradable sector, the heated domestic demand can trigger inflationary pressures in the non-tradable sector, for instance, such as in the services sector. In this context, the Copom will continue to manage the monetary policy stance so that the gains obtained in inflation control in recent years become permanent. In this respect, the Copom will carefully monitor the evolution of inflation and the several core inflation measures, as well as inflation expectations within the forecast period, discriminating between one-off and persistent or generalized price increases, and promptly adjusting the monetary policy stance to the circumstances. 
18. The preservation of inflation rates in line with the targets path and the consolidation of a long-lasting stable macroeconomic scenario will contribute to the progressive reduction of macroeconomic risk perception underway. As a consequence of this improved perception, the scope for a reduction in real interest rates in the future will naturally follow. The Copom evaluates that the persistence of a cautious monetary policy stance has been critical to increase the probability that inflation will continue to evolve according to the targets path. For this to materialize, however, it is important that forward-looking inflation indicators, in particular the expected dynamic of aggregate supply and demand, evolve in a harmonic way. 
19. The Committee emphasizes, once again, that there are important time lags in the transmission of monetary policy stance to economic activity and inflation. Since the beginning of the monetary easing cycle, in September 2005, the Selic rate has already been reduced by 850 b.p., with the bulk of the reduction concentrated in the last nine months. Consequently, neither has the activity level completely mirrored the effects of the interest rates cuts yet, nor have the effects of the economic activity on inflation completely materialized. Therefore, the evaluation of alternative monetary policy stances should necessarily focus on the forward-looking inflation scenario and its risks, instead of current inflation indicators. 
20. During the coming months, credit growth and payroll expansion should continue to bolster economic activity. As mentioned in recent Copom Minutes, activity level should also reflect the effects of the possibly more intense expansion of governmental transfers and other fiscal impulses expected for the next quarters. Consequently, the lagged effects of interest rates cuts on an increasingly robust aggregate demand will add up to other factors that will continue to contribute to this expansion. These issues become even more relevant considering the clear signs of heated aggregate demand, and the fact that the monetary policy decisions will have effects as of 2008. 
21. The Copom recognizes the important contribution of investment to expand productive capacity. This factor, together with the external sector, has helped to mitigate inflationary pressures. However, the Copom evaluates that the pace of domestic demand expansion, which should continue to be sustained, among other factors, by the impulse derived from the monetary policy easing implemented this year, may bring non-insignificant risks to the inflationary dynamics. In this context, the consistent reduction of the mismatch between the rhythm of expansion of supply of goods and services and demand is even more relevant to the assessment of possibilities of monetary policy stance. 
22. Aiming at consolidating a stable and predictable environment, the Copom adopts a strategy to avoid a volatile inflationary trajectory. This strategy takes into consideration the lags in the transmission mechanisms and has been the most adequate to deal with the uncertainty inherent to the process of monetary policy formulation and implementation. That is the reason why variables such as inflation projections, the balance of risks associated to the forward-looking scenario and especially the preventive stance in the decision-making process of the Copom are so important. Prudence assumes an even more important role in this process, like at the current moment, when the deterioration of the balance of inflationary risks reduces the safety margin of the monetary policy. 
23. In this context, considering the uncertainties associated with both the transmission mechanisms of the monetary policy and the prospective growth pace of aggregate supply and demand, the Committee unanimously decided to maintain the Selic target rate at 11.25% p.a., without bias. This decision aims to preserve the gains in inflation control and to ensure that the strengthening of economic activity continues to be underpinned by solid fundamentals. 
24. Under the inflation-targeting regime, the Copom decides according to inflation prospects, the analysis of several alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine price prospective dynamics and its balance of risks. Domestic demand continues to expand vigorously, backing-up economic activity dynamism, including sectors little exposed to external competition, at a time when the effects of important incentive factors, such as the monetary easing already implemented, are still not fully perceived. The contribution of the external sector to a benign inflationary scenario may become less effective, at a moment when the effects of investment over productive capacity of the economy still need to consolidate. In such environment, the monetary authority must remain vigilant to avoid that short-term uncertainties contaminate longer time horizons. If the risk profile change and imply shifts in the inflation prospective scenario, the Committee will promptly adjust the monetary policy stance to the circumstances. 