1. IPCA inflation remained virtually unchanged in March (0.48%) relative to 0.49% in February. As a consequence, inflation reached 1.52% in the first quarter of 2008, up from 1.26% in the same period of 2007. Twelve-month trailing inflation continued to accelerate. After reaching 4.56% in January, it totaled 4.61% in February and 4.73% in March (2.96% in March 2007). Under this comparison basis, the acceleration of consumer price inflation essentially mirrors the behavior of market prices, which increased more rapidly than regulated prices. In fact, market prices and regulated prices increased 6.03% and 1.83%, respectively, in the twelve months through March, compared to 2.82% and 3.15% in the twelve months through March 2007. Moreover, despite the BRL appreciation, the prices of tradable goods accelerated, reaching 5.33% (compared to 1.10% in March 2007), according to the same comparison basis. Regarding non-tradable goods, greatly pressured by the behavior in the prices of perishable food and services, twelve-month trailing inflation was even higher (6.67%). The recent behavior of IPCA inflation has been remarkably less benign than that observed in previous quarters, so that since the end of 2007 inflation has signaled that it could be diverging from the targets path, reaching 2.97% in the last six months. 
2. The three main underlying inflation measures calculated by the BCB showed divergent behavior in the first three months of the year. The core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices increased from 0.40% in January to 0.69% in February (under the impact of seasonal elevation of education costs), but retreated to 0.36% in March. The smoothed and non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation measures varied from 0.37% and 0.41% in January 2008, to 0.27% and 0.36% in February, and 0.39% and 0.41% in March, respectively. Similarly to headline inflation, the three core inflation measures remarkably accelerated in the first quarter of the year, in comparison to the same period of 2007, with increases from 1.17%, 0.92% and 0.81% to 1.46%, 1.03% and 1.18% for the core inflation by exclusion, smoothed and non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation, respectively. On a twelve-month trailing basis, the three core inflation measures accelerated, following the behavior of headline inflation. Core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices increased significantly, to 4.41% in March 2008, up from 4.27% in February and 4.09% in January. Smoothed trimmed means core inflation showed similar behavior (4.16% in March, up from 4.05% in February and 4.02% in January), while the non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation, which tends to present less inertial behavior, increased to 4.01% in March, up from 3.83% in February and 3.68% in January. Still on a twelve-month trailing basis, inflation core measures, despite remaining below the central target, currently stand at levels significantly higher than the record lows reached in 2007. 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) inflation retreated to 0.38% in February, down from 0.99% in January, but accelerated to 0.70% in March. On a twelve-month trailing basis, IGP-DI inflation accelerated to 9.18% in March, up from 8.65% in February and 8.49% in January (compared to 4.49% in March 2007). In the twelve months through March, the IGP-DI increase reflected both the behavior of the Consumer Price Index-Brazil (IPC-Br), which totaled 4.52% (2.69% in March 2007), and also of the IPA-DI (Wholesale Price Index), whose variation totaled 11.39% (5.09% in March 2007). According to the same comparison basis, the Civil Construction National Index (INCC) increased 6.69% (5.25% in March 2007). Regarding agricultural IPA, inflation reached 24.68% (12.83% in the twelve months through March 2007). It bears emphasizing the acceleration of industrial prices, which began in the second half of 2007 and seems to have intensified lately. In the first quarter of 2008, the industrial IPA increased 2.63%, up from 0.18% in the same period of 2007. In the last twelve months, wholesale industrial price inflation increased to 6.98% in March, up from 6.20% in February, 5.26% in January and 4.42% in December 2007. As highlighted in previous Copom Minutes, the Copom evaluates that the effects of wholesale prices over consumer price inflation will depend on current and prospective demand conditions and price-setters’ expectations for the future inflation path. 
4. After the last Copom meeting, the IBGE released GDP data for the fourth quarter of 2007, as well as the results for the whole year. The data showed significant acceleration of growth in the last quarter of 2007, according both to the accumulated change in the year (5.4%, up from 5.1% in the third quarter), and to the year-over-year change (6.2%, up from 5.6% in the previous quarter). On the aggregate demand side, it bears highlighting the acceleration of gross fixed capital formation, which grew 16% year-over-year and, especially the change in the expansion pace of domestic consumption, which tends to be less volatile than investment throughout the cycle, to 8.6% up from 6.0%, according to the same comparison basis. On the aggregate supply side, it bears noticing the acceleration of the services sector, with 5.3% year-over-year expansion, up from 4.6% in the previous quarter. 
5. On a three-month moving average basis, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, industrial output increased 0.2% in February, after retreating 0.3% in the previous month. Still considering the seasonally adjusted series, after the 1.7% month-on-month expansion observed in January, industrial output reduced 0.5% in February, partially as a result of the technical interruptions in the pharmaceutical sector. It bears mentioning that general industrial output and manufacturing output grew 9.2% in the year. On a year-over-year basis, industrial output shows consistent growth acceleration: 9.7% in February, up from 8.5% in January and 6.3% in December 2007. The data already released for 2008 point, in short, to the continuity of the industrial production expansion cycle, which will continue to be favored by several incentive factors that influence economic activity, such as credit, employment and income expansion, the fiscal impulse and, in some sectors, the recovery of inventory levels. 
6. Among the use categories, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, capital goods production increased significantly in February (3.1%), after stability observed in January. Regarding other use categories, it bears emphasizing the production of durable consumer goods, which increased by 0.9% (5.9% in January). The scenario of solid expansion of capital goods production observed in 2007, mainly driven by the consolidation of positive prospects for the continuity of economic growth, underpinned by the perception of macroeconomic stability consolidation, seems to persist in this year. On its turn, the dynamism of durable consumer goods production reflects, predominantly, the remarkable improvement in credit conditions, when compared to historical patterns. It should be highlighted that the appearance of signs pointing to pressure over the availability of production factors, as suggested in some industrial surveys, indicates that possible reductions in the pace of industrial activity expansion could be associated to productive capacity restrictions. 
7. Labor market continues to present quite favorable performance. The unemployment rate in the six metropolitan regions covered by the Monthly Labor Survey (PME) increased, according to the seasonal pattern, to 8.7% in February (a record low for the month in the historical series), up from 8.0% in January and 7.4% in December). As a result, the average unemployment rate in the first two months of the year was 1.2 p.p. below that observed in the same period of 2007. According to data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, the unemployment rate increased to 8.6% in February, up from 8.5% in January, remaining in levels close to the record low of the historical series. In February, average real earnings increased 1.1% month-on-month and 2.5% year-over-year. As a consequence, real payrolls expanded by 6.2% in February, in year-over-year terms (and by 7.1% in January 2008, according to the same comparison basis), and continue to constitute a key driver for sustained aggregate demand growth. According to the National Industry Confederation (CNI) data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, manufacturing employment reduced by 0.1% in February (+0.8% in January). In year-over-year terms, employment grew 4.9%, totaling 4.0% growth in the last twelve months. Still regarding employment, data from the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) indicate the continuity of strong expansion in formal employment at the start of the year, with the creation of 205 thousand jobs in February (up from 142.9 thousand in January), a record high for the month and for the first two-month period of the year. Formal employment grew by 0.5% in the month, seasonally adjusted. Observed data point to a 6.1% expansion in formal employment in February, year-over-year, the highest rate recorded since April 2005, according to this comparison basis, an evidence of strong dynamism in the labor market. The services sector presented the highest hiring rate, with the creation of 74.4 thousand new jobs, followed by the manufacturing industry (46.8 thousand), the best performance of the series for the month, and civil construction (27.6 thousand). The retail sector recorded 13.8 thousand new jobs. The agricultural sector created 25.2 thousand new jobs, a record high for the period, due to the activities related to sugar cane plantations in the Mid-South region and to the soybean plantations. 
8. In line with the positive developments in labor market and with credit expansion, retail sales continue to record positive performance, indicating that the pace of domestic demand growth remains robust, and signs of cooling cannot be perceived. Despite the 1.5% decrease month-on-month in February, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, retail sales grew 12.2% year-over-year, showing acceleration at the margin. It bears highlighting the 22.3% expansion in the sales of “furniture and domestic appliances”. The steady growth of retail sales has reflected the performance of both the sectors more sensitive to income and employment expansions and those more sensitive to credit conditions. The expanded retail sales, which also include the sales of “vehicles, motorcycles, parts and pieces” and “construction material”, increased 1% in February, month-on-month, according to series seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, and 18.1% year-over-year. For the next quarters, the continuity of the current expanding cycle is expected, and will continue to be underpinned by employment and income growth, credit expansion and the maintenance of consumer confidence at high levels. Sector indicators, for example, relative to automobile sales in the first quarter of the year, corroborate this assessment.
9. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry reached 83.2% in February, unchanged relative to January, according to CNI data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, and remained close to the record high of the series. According to data seasonally adjusted by the CNI, the Nuci in the manufacturing industry reached 82.9%, down from the 83.3% record high observed in November. Without the seasonal adjustment, the Nuci in February stood 1.5 p.p. above the level registered in the same month of 2007. Thus, the average rate of the first two-month period of the year was 1.6 p.p. above the level observed in the same period of 2007. The quarterly Nuci calculated by Fundação Getulio Vargas (FGV) reached 85.2% in March, according to the observed series, 2.1 p.p. above the level registered in March 2007. For the consumer goods, capital goods and civil construction material sectors, the utilization rates in March were 4.3, 4.4 and 3.4 p.p. above those observed in the same month of 2007, respectively. The reduction of idle capacity, in relation to the margins usually observed, occurs in several sectors despite the significant increase of investment. Indeed, in February 2008, according to seasonally adjusted data, the absorption of capital goods increased firmly (1.8%), due to the vigorous growth of capital goods imports (6.8% in volume) and capital goods production (3.1%). Furthermore, the production of civil construction inputs increased 1.2% in the same period, showing robust performance. Recent data indicate that, although investment has been contributing to soften the increasing trend of capacity utilization rates, it has not been sufficient to contain this process. In this context, the timely maturation of investment projects will be crucial to limit mismatches regarding the evolution of aggregate supply and domestic demand in the relevant forecast period for monetary policy. As stressed in previous Copom Minutes, the inflation trajectory is closely linked to current and prospective developments related to the expansion of supply of goods and services, to adequately meet demand conditions. 
10. The trade balance continues to present robust performance, compared to historical patterns, despite the already expected deceleration at the margin, in line with assessments present in Inflation Reports and previous Copom Minutes about important structural changes in Brazilian foreign trade. In the last twelve months through March the trade surplus reached US$34.1 billion (25.5% below March 2007). Exports and imports totaled US$165.3 billion and US$131.2 billion, equivalent to 16.1% and 36.0% growth, respectively, year-over-year. As highlighted in previous Copom Minutes, imports have been growing faster than exports, both due to the strengthening of the BRL and to the robust economic activity in the country, despite the increases in the prices of several commodities included in the Brazilian export basket. The decrease in trade surplus contributed to the US$4.9 billion current account deficit registered in the twelve months through February 2008, equivalent to 0.4% of GDP. Foreign direct investment reached US$36.5 billion in the same period, equivalent to 2.8% of GDP. 
11. Regarding the external scenario, the process of economic deceleration in the US has consolidated, as evidenced by the economic activity data in the last quarter of 2007 and first quarter of 2008, but uncertainties regarding its magnitude and duration still remain. More recent data about the housing market and consumer goods demand, as well as confidence indices and other leading indicators, point to a significant slowdown. Uncertainties still remain about the length and amplitude of the effects of the US subprime mortgages market crisis over US and European financial institutions and over credit conditions for households and corporate. Despite the dominant opinion still seems to point out to a transitory, but possibly intense deceleration, the negative assessments have become more disseminated. These assessments reflect, to some extent, uncertainties about the capacity of the monetary policy stance implemented by the central bank in the US, to which fiscal incentives will be added, to smooth in a timely manner the US economic weakening, in light of persistent difficulties in the financial system. Despite the reduction of systemic risk perception, due to the Federal Reserve stance and the recapitalization of important institutions, such difficulties, on their turn, could be worsened by a cyclic deterioration in credit quality, which would reinforce the already evident trend to financial contraction, increasing the risk of slowdown intensification. Prospects for economic activity in Europe and Japan, notwithstanding some favorable indicators in Germany, have also deteriorated, despite not provoking the same degree of concerns that surround the US economic activity. On the other hand, strong economic growth in main Asian emerging economies, which so far have been apparently little affected by the US mortgage crisis, has offset the effects of economic deceleration in mature economies. In fact, pressures over production factors availability have triggered inflationary pressures in many emerging economies, many of which are consequently in the midst of monetary tightening cycles. For mature economies, prospects for monetary policy are more diverse. Economies presenting more moderate inflationary pressures and more evident credit contraction tend to present additional monetary policy easing. On the other hand, in economies where inflation rates are at high levels relative to their respective targets, the scope for reaction to the contraction caused by the credit crisis seems more limited. In this context, volatility and risk aversion indicators in international financial markets have remained at quite high levels since the last Copom meeting, although showing some contraction at the margin. Even if the prices of Brazilian assets present, at different magnitudes, sensitivity to the international scenario, Brazilian economic activity does not seem to have been significantly impacted by the persistent deterioration on global financial markets confidence, and, despite not decoupled from external economic developments, Brazilian economy should sustain its growth trajectory, essentially driven by domestic demand. 
12. Oil prices, systematic source of uncertainty stemming from the international scenario, once more increased substantially since the last Copom meeting and continue highly volatile. This behavior reflects structural changes in global energy markets, which have blocked the recovery of inventory levels traditionally observed, in addition to recurrent geopolitical tensions. Despite significant uncertainties inherent to oil prices forecasts, the main scenario considered by the Copom forecasts unchanged domestic gasoline prices in 2008, despite the probability of materialization of an alternative scenario has increased. However, apart from the behavior of domestic gasoline prices, one should recognize that the elevation of international oil prices impacts domestic economy both through productive chains, such as the petrochemical, as well as through the deterioration of inflation expectations. The prices of other commodities, especially grains, which have also increased significantly since the last Copom meeting, despite more pessimism about the prospects for global economic growth and the turmoil on global financial markets, decreased last weeks, but continue to record significant increases in the year. 
13. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations utilized the following assumptions: 
a) Compared to the assumptions considered in the March Copom meeting, projected adjustments for gasoline and bottled gas prices were both maintained at 0% for 2008, 
b) Compared to the assumptions considered in the March Copom meeting, the projections for electricity price adjustments in 2008 were set at 0.1% down from 1.1%, while projections for fixed telephone prices were maintained at 3.5%, 
c) The projection for regulated prices inflation, based on individual items, was maintained at 4.0% for 2008. This set of prices, according to data released by the IBGE, corresponded to 30.09% of the total March IPCA, 
d) The projection for regulated prices inflation in 2009 was maintained at 4.5%. This projection is based on the endogenous determination model for regulated prices, which computes seasonal components, exchange rate changes, market prices inflation and the IGP (General Price Index) variation, 
e) The projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, using a Vector Autoregressive model based on the 360-day swap rates – replacing the model based on the Selic and 180-day swap rates, estimates a 83bps spread in the fourth quarter of 2008, under the benchmark scenario. The swap rate trajectory points to a 55bps spread in the last quarter of 2009. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. 
14. Regarding fiscal policy, the projections assume the achievement of 3.8% of GDP for the consolidated public sector primary surplus in 2008 and 2009, adjusted by the possibility of a 0.45 p.p. reduction in this percentage, due to the implementation of the PPI (Investment Pilot Program). The related assumptions considered in the previous meeting were maintained. 
15. Since the March Copom meeting, median IPCA inflation expectations for 2008, compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations Group (Gerin), increased significantly to 4.66%, up from 4.41%. Twelve-month ahead inflation expectations increased to 4.38%, from 4.30%, considering the composition of median monthly inflation market expectations. For 2009, inflation expectations increased to 4.40% up from 4.30%. 
16. Considering the hypotheses under the benchmark scenario – which assumes the maintenance of the Selic rate at 11.25% and the exchange rate at R$1.70/US$ during the forecast period – the projection for the 2008 IPCA significantly increased compared to the value considered at the March Copom meeting, above the 4.5% target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN) for the year. According to the forecast based on the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin on the eve of the Copom meeting – IPCA inflation forecast for 2008 also increased compared to the value considered at the March Copom meeting, and is also above the central target for the year. The projection for 2009 based on the benchmark scenario increased relative to the March Copom meeting, whilst the projection based on the market scenario decreased – in both cases, projections are above the 4.5% target. 
17. The Copom evaluates that monetary policy should contribute for the consolidation of a favorable long-term macroeconomic environment. Economic activity data indicate that the intensity of demand expansion continues quite robust, showing acceleration in some segments and regions in the first quarter of 2008, and is responsible, at least partially, for the inflationary pressures observed in the short-run, despite strong imports growth and the benign investment behavior. Even in the context of moderate deceleration of global growth this year and the higher volatility observed in global markets since mid-2007, the Committee believes, according to available information, that the balance of payments should not represent imminent risk to the inflationary scenario. On the other hand, there are signs that relevant inflationary pressures are intensifying both in mature and emerging economies, evidencing the existence of inflationary risks on the global outlook. The Copom reaffirms the view, stated in previous minutes, that an alternative scenario of more intense and generalized global deceleration represents an ambiguous risk factor for the Brazilian inflation. On the one hand, by reducing net exports it would act as a factor to restrain aggregate demand. Moreover, the potential decrease of some important commodities prices could contribute to a lower domestic inflation. On the other hand, the above-mentioned alternative scenario could unfavorably impact inflation prospects through two mechanisms. In the case of deceleration in the mature economies that comprise the global financial markets center, risk aversion could increase, resulting in decreased demand for Brazilian assets and depreciation of their prices. In addition, in the medium run, a possible reduction of net exports could similarly affect the price sustainability of certain Brazilian assets. Due to the deterioration of inflation prospects, in a more uncertain scenario, the Committee evaluates that the risk of materialization of a less benign inflationary scenario increased. The Copom emphasizes that the main challenge of monetary policy in this context is to guarantee the maintenance of positive results reached in the last years. Particularly, monetary policy should act so that impacts initially focused on price indices do not result in persistent deterioration of inflation dynamics through a worsening in expectations. 
18. The Copom considers that the probability that emerging local inflationary pressures will represent risks to the domestic inflation trajectory has increased, because the heated demand and market of factors, in addition to the possibility of existence of supply restrictions in some sectors, can increase the pass-through of wholesale prices over consumer price inflation. The Committee understands that the prospects for this pass-through, as well as for the generalization of the local pressures initially focused on consumer price inflation, depend in a critical manner on inflation expectations, which increased significantly in the recent weeks, and continue to be carefully monitored. Additionally, it is worth noticing that although the external sector can restrain the inflationary pressures in the tradable sector, heated domestic demand can trigger inflationary pressures in the non-tradable sector, for instance, such as in the services sector. In this context, the Copom will continue to manage the monetary policy stance so that the gains obtained in inflation control in recent years become permanent. In this respect, the Copom will continue to carefully monitor the evolution of inflation and the several core inflation measures, as well as inflation expectations within the forecast period, promptly adjusting the monetary policy stance in order to avoid the consolidation of a scenario where one-off adjustments become persistent or generalized price increases. 
19. The preservation of inflation rates in line with the targets path and the consequent consolidation of a long-lasting stable macroeconomic scenario will contribute to the continuous progressive reduction of macroeconomic risk perception that has occurred in the last years. The Copom evaluates that the persistence of a cautious and timely monetary policy stance has been critical to increase the probability that inflation will continue to evolve according to the targets path. For this to materialize, however, it is important that forward-looking inflation indicators, in particular the expected dynamic of aggregate supply and demand, converge during the relevant time for monetary policy. 
20. The Committee emphasizes, once again, that there are important time lags in the transmission of monetary policy stance to economic activity and inflation. Therefore, the evaluation of alternative monetary policy stances should necessarily focus on the forward-looking inflation scenario and its risks, instead of current inflation indicators. 
21. During the coming months, credit growth and real payroll expansion should continue to bolster economic activity. As mentioned in recent Copom Minutes, the effects of governmental transfers and other fiscal impulses expected for this and the next quarters should also add up to the factors that will sustain demand. These issues become even more relevant considering the clear signs of heated aggregate demand, and the fact that the monetary policy decisions will have concentrated effects in the second half of 2008 and in 2009. 
22. The Copom recognizes the important contribution of investment to expand productive capacity. This factor, together with the external sector, has helped to mitigate inflationary pressures, which would be even more intense in their absence. However, the Copom evaluates that the pace of domestic demand expansion, which should continue to be sustained, among other factors, by fiscal transfers and by income and credit growth, continues to present risks to inflationary dynamics. In this context, the consistent reduction of the mismatch between the rhythm of expansion of supply of goods and services and the increase of demand is even more relevant to the assessment of different possibilities of monetary policy stance. 
23. Aiming at consolidating a stable and predictable environment, the Copom adopts a strategy to avoid a volatile inflationary trajectory. This strategy takes into consideration the time lags in the transmission mechanisms and has proved to be the most adequate to deal with the uncertainty inherent to the process of monetary policy formulation and implementation. That is the reason why variables such as inflation projections, the balance of risks associated to the forward-looking scenario and especially the preventive stance in the decision-making process of the Copom are so important. At the current moment, characterized by the deterioration in current and expected inflationary dynamics, prudence assumes an even more important role in this process. In the current circumstances, there is the risk is that economic agents start to attribute higher probability that inflation increases will become persistent, which would reduce the efficacy of the monetary policy. Therefore, the Copom’s assessment, backed by international experience, is that the performance of monetary policy tends to be more effective to reach their goals more quickly, when the deterioration of inflationary dynamics is in its early stages, rather than when it is consolidated. 
24. The Copom evaluates that, in light of signals of economy heating, as illustrated by the acceleration of some wholesale prices and the evolution of core inflation measures, and by the fast increase in inflation expectations, the risks for the concretization of a benign inflationary scenario, in which IPCA would remain consistent with the targets path, are relevant. In fact, the deterioration of the forward-looking scenario is already present in the Committee’s inflation projections. The Copom also considers that the persistence of the mismatch between the paces of expansion of aggregate supply and demand tends to increase the probability of such scenario to materialize. In these circumstances, monetary policy should act through the adjustment of the basic interest rate in order to, on the one hand, contribute to the convergence between the paces of expansion of aggregate supply and demand, and on the other hand, avoid that inflationary pressures initially focused on price indices lead to persistent deterioration of expectations and of the inflation forward-looking scenario. By remaining ready to act as the balance of risks to inflation dynamics so requests, the Committee believes that it is, in fact, helping to sustain economic growth, which requires stability, predictability and consequent extension of the planning horizon for businesses and families, as well as to protect the substantial increases in real income of workers observed in recent years. 
25. In this context, evaluating the evolution of the macroeconomic scenario and inflation prospects, the Committee unanimously decided to raise the Selic target rate to 11.75% p.a., without bias. The Committee understands that the decision to promptly implement significant part of the adjustment in the basic interest rate will contribute to the timely reduction in the risks for the inflation scenario, reducing, therefore, the magnitude of the total adjustment to be implemented. 
26. Under the inflation-targeting regime, the Copom decides according to inflation prospects, the analysis of several alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine prospective price dynamics and the balance of risks associated to its projections. Domestic demand continues to expand vigorously, backing-up economic activity dynamism, including sectors little exposed to external competition, at a time when the effects of important incentive factors are still perceived. On its turn, the contribution of the external sector to a benign inflationary scenario, in light of robust domestic demand growth, seems to become less effective, at a moment when the effects of investment over productive capacity of the economy still need to consolidate. In such environment, the monetary authority should act so that to avoid that short-term uncertainties contaminate longer time horizons. If the risk profile deteriorates in a matter that implies shifts in the basic inflation prospective scenario, the Committee will promptly adjust monetary policy stance to the circumstances.