1. IPCA inflation accelerated in April (0.55%) relative to 0.48% in March and 0.49% in February. As a consequence, inflation reached 2.08% in the first four months of 2008, up from 1.51% in the same period of 2007. Twelve-month trailing inflation continued to accelerate. In fact, after reaching 4.61% in February and 4.73% in March, it totaled 5.04% in April (3.00% in April 2007). Under this comparison basis, the acceleration of consumer price inflation essentially mirrors the behavior of market prices, which increased more rapidly than regulated prices. In fact, market prices and regulated prices increased 6.59% and 1.59%, respectively, in the twelve months through April, compared to 2.97% and 2.99% in the twelve months through April 2007. Moreover, despite the BRL appreciation, the prices of tradable goods accelerated, reaching 6.15% (compared to 1.53% in April 2007), according to the same comparison basis. Regarding the prices of non-tradable goods, greatly pressured by the behavior in the prices of perishable food and services, twelve-month trailing inflation was even higher (6.99%), evidencing the influence of domestic prices over inflation. Preliminary data for May point to the continuity of inflation acceleration. The recent behavior of IPCA inflation has been remarkably less benign than that observed in previous quarters, so that since the end of 2007, inflation has signaled that it could be diverging from the targets path, reaching 3.22% in the last six months. 
2. Two out of the three main underlying inflation measures calculated by the BCB followed the inflation acceleration in the headline index in April. The core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices and the smoothed trimmed means core inflation measures increased from 0.36% and 0.39% in March to 0.53% and 0.48% in April, respectively. On the other hand, the non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation measure increased 0.41% in April, unchanged relative to March. Similarly to headline inflation, the three core inflation measures remarkably accelerated in the first four months of the year, compared to the same period of 2007, with increases from 1.46%, 1.21% and 1.09% to 1.99%, 1.52% and 1.60% for the core inflation by exclusion, smoothed and non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation, respectively. On a twelve-month trailing basis, the three core inflation measures continued to accelerate substantially, following the behavior of headline inflation. Core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices continued to increase significantly, to 4.65% in April, up from 4.41% in March and 4.27% in February. Smoothed trimmed means core inflation showed similar behavior (4.36% in April, up from 4.16% in March), while the non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation increased to 4.14% in April, up from 4.01% in March, and 3.83% in February. Moreover, it bears emphasizing that the behavior of diffusion indices suggests increased dissemination of inflation acceleration, confirming the analysis present in previous Copom Minutes. 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) inflation increased to 1.12% in April, up from 0.70% in March and 0.38% in February. On a twelve-month trailing basis, IGP-DI inflation accelerated to 10.24% in April, up from 9.18% in March and 8.65% in February (compared to 4.61% in April 2007). In the twelve months through April, the IGP-DI increase reflected both the behavior of the Consumer Price Index-Brazil (IPC-Br), which totaled 4.95% (2.67% in April 2007), and also of the IPA-DI (Wholesale Price Index), whose variation totaled 12.82% (5.27% in April 2007). According to the same comparison basis, the Civil Construction National Index (INCC) increased 7.13% (5.35% in April 2007). Regarding agricultural IPA, inflation reached 27.90% (11.04% in the twelve months through April 2007). It bears highlighting the acceleration of industrial prices, which began in the second half of 2007 and seems to have intensified lately. In the first four months of 2008, the industrial IPA increased 4.44%, up from 1.02% in the same period of 2007. In the last twelve months, wholesale industrial price inflation increased to 7.97% in April, up from 4.42% in December 2007. As mentioned in previous Copom Minutes, the Copom evaluates that the effects of wholesale prices over consumer price inflation will depend on current and prospective demand conditions and price-setters’ expectations for the future inflation path. 
4. On a three-month moving average basis, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, industrial output increased 0.1% in April, after growing by 0.7% in the previous month. Still considering the seasonally adjusted series, after the 0.6% month-on-month expansion observed in March, industrial output increased 0.2% in April. It bears noticing that general industrial output grew 7.3% in the year, with respective increases of 7.4% and 5.9% in manufacturing and in mining output. In a year-over-year basis, industrial output showed remarkable volatility in March and April, with changes of 1.4% and 10.1%, respectively, mainly driven by the unusual number of working days recently observed. The data already released for the last months point, in short, to the continuity of the industrial production expansion cycle, despite at a pace dependent of possible limits to supply expansion. 
5. Among the use categories, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, capital goods production increased significantly in April (1.6%), up from 1.3% in March. The other use categories showed declines at the margin, totaling –0.2% for intermediate goods, -1.9% for durable consumer goods and –1.5% for semi- and non-durable consumer goods. Among industrial production categories, capital goods production leads the expansion, with a 20.5% increase, followed by the 15.9% elevation in durable consumer goods production. The scenario of solid expansion of capital goods production observed since 2007, mainly driven by the consolidation of positive prospects for the continuity of economic growth, underpinned by the perception of macroeconomic stability consolidation, seems to persist in this year. On its turn, the dynamism of durable consumer goods production reflects, predominantly, the remarkable improvement in credit conditions, when compared to historical patterns. It should be highlighted that the emergency of signs pointing to pressure over the availability of production factors, as suggested in some industrial surveys, indicates that accommodation in the pace of industrial activity expansion could be greatly associated to productive capacity restrictions.
6. Labor market continues to present quite favorable performance. The unemployment rate in the six metropolitan regions covered by the Monthly Labor Survey (PME) decreased to 8.5% in April, down from 8.6% in March and 8.7% in February. As a result, the average unemployment rate in the first four months of the year was 1.4 p.p. below that observed in the same period of 2007. According to data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, the unemployment rate decreased to 8.1% in April, a record low for the month since the start of the historical series in 2002, down from 8.2% in March and 8.5% in February. In March, average real earnings fell 0.6% month-on-month and increased 2.0% year-over-year. On the other hand, in April, average real earnings increased 1.0% month-on-month and 2.8% year-over-year. As a consequence, real payrolls expanded by 6.5% in April, up from 6.3% in the previous month, and 7.2% in year-over-year terms, continuing to constitute a key driver for sustained aggregate demand growth. According to the National Industry Confederation (CNI) data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, manufacturing employment reduced by 0.04% in April (+0.2% in March). In year-over-year terms, employment grew 4.0%, totaling 4.2% growth in the last twelve months. Still regarding employment, data from the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) indicate the continuity of strong expansion in formal employment this year, with the creation of 294.5 thousand jobs in April (up from 206.6 thousand in March and 205.0 thousand in February). In the first four months of the year, employment reached a record high of 849 thousand hires. Formal employment grew by 0.5% in April, seasonally adjusted. Observed data point to a 5.6% expansion in formal employment in the last twelve months, an evidence of strong dynamism in the labor market. The services sector presented the highest hiring rate in April, with the creation of 97.4 thousand new jobs, followed by the manufacturing industry (82.7 thousand), and by civil construction (32.1 thousand), a record high for the period. The retail sector recorded 34.7 thousand new jobs. The agricultural sector created 38.6 thousand new jobs, due to the activities related to sugar cane plantations in the Mid-South region. 
7. In line with the positive developments in the labor market and with the credit expansion, retail sales continue to record positive performance, indicating that the pace of domestic demand growth remains robust, and signs of cooling cannot be perceived. According to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, expanded retail sales grew by 1.4% in March, up from the 1.2% in February, growing 12.1% year-over-year. As a consequence of the March result, expanded retail sales growth averaged 3.8% in the first quarter of the year, quarter-on-quarter. Month-on-month, according to data seasonally adjusted, it should be highlighted the expansion in the sales of fabric, clothing and shoes (6.1%), - hyper- and supermarket sales, food products, beverages and tobacco (3.3%, despite the rise of food prices) and fuels and lubricants (1.7%). In 2008, accumulated growth was more significant in “office, computing and communication material and equipment” (31.3%), “other personal and domestic articles” (23.9%) and “vehicles, motorcycles, parts and pieces” (23.4%). The steady growth of retail sales has reflected the performance of both the sectors more sensitive to income and employment expansions and those more sensitive to credit conditions. For the next quarters, the continuity of the current cycle of retail sales expansion is expected, and will continue to be underpinned by employment and income growth, credit expansion and the maintenance of consumer confidence at high levels. Sector indicators, for example, relative to automobile sales in April and May, corroborate this assessment. 
8. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry reached 83.4% in April, up from the 82.4% observed in March, according to CNI data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, a record high for the series. According to data seasonally adjusted by CNI, the Nuci in the manufacturing industry reached 83.2%, down from the 83.3% record high observed in November. Without the seasonal adjustment, the Nuci in April stood 1.5 p.p. above the level registered in the same month of 2007. As a consequence, the average rate of the first quarter of 2008 was 1.3 p.p. above the level observed in the same period of 2007. The quarterly Nuci calculated by Fundação Getulio Vargas (FGV) reached 85.5% in April, according to the seasonally adjusted series, above the 85.3% level registered in January. For the consumer goods and capital goods sectors, the utilization rates in April reached 86.0% and 88.3%, respectively, in both cases a record high for the series. The maintenance of high installed capacity utilization rates, with some reduction of idle capacity at the margin, occurs in several sectors despite the significant increase in investment. Indeed, in April 2008, according to seasonally adjusted data, the absorption of capital goods firmly increased (6.2%), due to the vigorous growth of capital goods imports (10.7% in volume) and capital goods production (1.6%). Furthermore, the production of civil construction inputs decreased 3.4% in the same period, after a 2.6% increase in March. Recent data indicate that, although investment has been contributing to soften the increasing trend of capacity utilization rates, it has not been sufficient to contain this process. In this context, the timely maturation of investment projects will be crucial to limit mismatches regarding the evolution of aggregate supply and domestic demand in the relevant forecast period for monetary policy. As stressed in previous Copom Minutes, the inflation trajectory is closely linked to current and prospective developments related to the expansion of supply of goods and services, to adequately meet demand conditions. 
9. The trade balance continues to present deceleration at the margin, which was already expected, and is in line with assessments present in Inflation Reports and previous Copom Minutes. In the last twelve months through May the trade surplus reached US$31.9 billion (33% below May 2007). Exports and imports totaled US$172.6 billion and US$140.7 billion, equivalent to 16.4% and 39.9% growth, respectively, in the last twelve months, in comparison to the same period ended in May 2007. As highlighted in previous Copom Minutes, imports have been growing faster than exports, both due to the strengthening of the BRL and to the robust economic activity in the country, notwithstanding the increases in the prices of several commodities included in the Brazilian export basket. The decrease in trade surplus contributed to the US$14.7 billion current account deficit registered in the twelve months through April 2008, equivalent to 1.1% of GDP. Foreign direct investment reached US$37.2 billion in the same period, equivalent to 2.8% of GDP. 
10. Regarding the external scenario, the US economy seems to have entered a process of economic stagnation since the last quarter of 2007, and still suffers the impact of the crisis in the real estate sector, with spillover effects on the labor market, whose weakening, in combination with higher oil prices, affects consumer confidence, contributing importantly to depress consumption. Even if the influence of monetary and fiscal stimulus can reduce the risk of a significant contraction in activity, the dominant scenario seems to point to a more consistent recover only from 2009. Even after significant strengthening of capital basis of relevant financial institutions, uncertainties still remain about the length and amplitude of the effects of the US subprime mortgages market crisis over US and European banking system and over credit conditions for households and corporate. Therefore, uncertainties persist about the capability of monetary and fiscal policy measures implemented by the US authorities to smooth the weakening of the US economy in a timely manner, in light of the ongoing difficulties of the financial system. Despite the reduction of systemic risk perception, since mid-March, such difficulties could be worsened by a cyclic deterioration in the quality of credit, which would reinforce the already evident trend to financial contraction, increasing the risk of slowdown intensification. Prospects for economic activity in Europe and Japan, in spite of some favorable indicators in Germany, have also deteriorated, despite not provoking the same degree of concerns that surround the US economic activity. It should be highlighted that despite the prospects of continuity of slowdown for mature economies, global inflationary pressures have intensified. This has partially reflected strong economic growth in many emerging economies, which so far have been apparently little affected by the US mortgage crisis, offsetting the effects of economic deceleration in mature economies. In fact, in light of pressures over production factors availability, which have triggered inflationary pressures in many emerging economies, the trend seems to point to the continuity of monetary tightening cycles. For mature economies, prospects for monetary policy are more diverse, notwithstanding the fact that inflation acceleration, which in some cases starts to deteriorate mid-term inflation expectations, seems to limit the scope for additional monetary policy easing, even if the risks to activity stemming from the credit crisis remain. In this context, volatility and risk aversion indicators in international financial markets have remained at quite high levels since the last Copom meeting, although showing some contraction at the margin. The elevation of Brazilian sovereign risk assessment by major rating agencies tends to reduce the sensitivity that Brazilian assets prices show relative to the international scenario, contributing to mitigate, but not to eliminate, the effects of difficulties experienced by the global economy over Brazilian economic activity, essentially driven by domestic demand. 
11. Oil prices, systematic source of uncertainty stemming from the international scenario, once more increased substantially since the last Copom meeting and continue highly volatile. This behavior reflects structural changes in global energy markets, which have blocked the recovery of inventory levels traditionally observed, in addition to recurrent geopolitical tensions. Despite significant uncertainties inherent to oil prices forecasts, the main scenario considered by the Copom forecasts unchanged domestic gasoline prices in 2008, despite the probability of materialization of an alternative scenario is relevant. However, apart from the behavior of domestic gasoline prices, one should recognize that the elevation of international oil prices impacts domestic economy both through productive chains, such as the petrochemical, as well as through the deterioration of inflation expectations. The prices of other commodities, especially grains, which have also increased significantly since the last Copom meeting, despite more pessimism about the prospects for global economic growth and the turmoil on global financial markets, showed heterogeneous performance in the last weeks, but continue, with few exceptions, to record significant increases in the year. 
12. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations utilized the following assumptions: 
a) Compared to the assumptions considered in the April Copom meeting, projected adjustments for gasoline and bottled gas prices didn’t change, once adjusted according to the effects stemming from specific taxes, and so were maintained at 0% for 2008; 
b) Compared to the assumptions considered in the April Copom meeting, the projections for fixed telephone prices were maintained at 3.5% in 2008, while the projections for electricity price adjustments were changed to 1.1%, up from 0.1%; 
c) The projection for regulated prices inflation, based on individual items, was maintained at 4.0% for 2008. This set of prices, according to data released by the IBGE, corresponded to 30.09% of the total April IPCA; 
d) The projection for regulated prices inflation in 2008 was maintained at 4.5%. This projection is based on the endogenous determination model for regulated prices, which computes seasonal components, foreign exchange rate changes, market prices inflation and the IGP (General Price Index) variation; 
e) The projection for the spreads over the Selic rate based on the 360-day swap rates estimates a 133bps spread in the fourth quarter of 2008 and 84bps spread in the last quarter of 2009. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. 
13. Regarding fiscal policy, the projections assume the achievement of the public sector primary surplus target of 3.8% of GDP in 2008 and 2009, increased by 0.5 p.p. The related assumptions considered in the previous meeting were maintained. 
14. Since the April Copom meeting, median IPCA inflation expectations for 2008, compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations Group (Gerin), increased significantly to 5.48%, up from 4.66%. Twelve-month ahead inflation expectations increased as well from 4.38% to 5.01%, considering the composition of median monthly inflation market expectations. For 2009, inflation expectations increased to 4.60% up from 4.40%. 
15. Considering the hypotheses under the benchmark scenario – which assumes the maintenance of the Selic rate at 11.75% and the exchange rate at R$1.65/US$ during the forecast period – the projection for the 2008 IPCA increased compared to the value considered at the April Copom meeting, remaining above the 4.5% target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN) for the year. According to the forecast based on the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin on the eve of the Copom meeting – IPCA inflation forecast for 2008 also increased compared to the value considered at the last Copom meeting, and is also above the central target for the year. The projection for 2009 based on the benchmark scenario increased relative to the April Copom meeting, whilst the projection based on the market scenario remained stable – in both cases, projections are above the 4.5% target. 
16. The Copom evaluates that monetary policy should contribute for the consolidation of a favorable long-term macroeconomic environment. Economic activity data indicate that the intensity of domestic demand expansion continues quite robust, showing acceleration in some segments and regions in the first quarter of 2008, and is responsible, at least partially, for the inflationary pressures observed in the short-run, despite strong imports growth and the benign investment behavior. Even in the context of moderate deceleration of global growth this year and the higher volatility observed in global markets since mid-2007, the Committee believes, according to information available at the moment, that the balance of payments should not represent imminent risk to the inflationary scenario, evaluation corroborated by the recent upgrade to investment grade of Brazilian sovereign debt bonds. On the other hand, there are signs that relevant inflationary pressures are intensifying both in mature and emerging economies, evidencing the existence of inflationary risks on the global outlook. The Copom reaffirms the view, stated in previous Minutes, that an alternative scenario of more intense and generalized global deceleration represents an ambiguous risk factor for the Brazilian inflation. On the one hand, by reducing net exports it would act as a factor to restrain aggregate demand. Moreover, the potential decrease of some important commodities prices could contribute to a lower domestic inflation. On the other hand, the above-mentioned alternative scenario could unfavorably impact inflation prospects through two mechanisms. In the case of deceleration in the mature economies that comprise the global financial markets center, risk aversion could increase, resulting in decreased demand for Brazilian assets and depreciation of their prices. In addition, in the medium run, a possible reduction of net exports could similarly affect the price sustainability of certain Brazilian assets. In light of the deterioration of inflation prospects, in a more uncertain scenario, the Committee evaluates that the risk of materialization of a less benign inflationary scenario continues to be high. The Copom emphasizes that the main challenge of monetary policy in this context is to guarantee the maintenance of positive results reached in the last years. Particularly, monetary policy should act so that impacts initially focused on price indices, partially derived from relative prices adjustments that occur in global scale, do not result in persistent deterioration of inflation dynamics through the worsening in expectations. The Copom understands that the maintenance of monetary stability is a necessary condition so that the relative prices system continues to signal efficiently the adjustments requested for ongoing consumption and production patterns in the economy. 
17. The Copom considers that the probability that emerging local inflationary pressures will represent risks to the domestic inflation trajectory remain high, because the heated domestic demand and market of factors, in addition to the possibility of emergency of supply restrictions in some sectors, can increase the pass-through of wholesale prices over consumer price inflation. The Committee understands that the prospects for this pass-through, as well as for the generalization of the local pressures initially focused on consumer price inflation, depend in a critical manner on inflation expectations, which increased significantly in the recent weeks, and continue to be carefully monitored. Additionally, it is worth noticing that although the external sector can restrain the inflationary pressures in the tradable sector, heated domestic demand can trigger intense inflationary pressures in the non-tradable sector, for instance, such as in the services sector. In this context, the Copom will continue to manage the monetary policy stance so that the gains obtained in inflation control in recent years become permanent. In this respect, the Copom will continue to carefully monitor the evolution of inflation and the several core inflation measures, as well as inflation expectations within the forecast period, promptly adjusting the monetary policy stance in order to avoid the consolidation of a scenario where one-off adjustments become persistent or generalized price increases. 
18. The preservation of inflation rates in line with the targets path and the consequent consolidation of a long-lasting stable macroeconomic scenario will contribute to the continuous progressive reduction of macroeconomic risk perception that has occurred in the last years. The Copom evaluates that the persistence of a cautious and timely monetary policy stance has been critical to increase the probability that inflation will continue to evolve according to the targets path, even in light of global inflationary pressures. For this to materialize, however, it is important that forward-looking inflation indicators, in particular the expected dynamic of aggregate supply and demand, converge throughout relevant period for the monetary policy. 
19. The Committee emphasizes, once again, that there are important time lags between the implementation of monetary policy and its effects over economic activity and inflation. Therefore, the evaluation of alternative monetary policy stances should necessarily focus on the forward-looking inflation scenario and its risks, instead of current inflation indicators. 
20. During the coming months, credit growth, despite more moderate due to an increase in funding costs, and real payroll expansion should continue to bolster economic activity. The effects of governmental transfers expected for this and the next quarters should also add up to the factors that will sustain demand, but with less intensity than previously anticipated. These considerations become even more relevant considering the clear signs of heated aggregate demand, the dissemination of pressures resulting from adjustments in relative prices, and the fact that the monetary policy decisions will have concentrated effects in the second half of 2008 and in 2009. 
21. The Copom recognizes the important contribution of investment to expand productive capacity. This factor, together with the external sector, has helped to mitigate inflationary pressures. However, the Copom evaluates that the pace of domestic demand expansion, which should continue to be sustained, among other factors, by income and credit growth, continues to present significant risks to inflationary dynamics. In this context, the consistent reduction of the mismatch between the rhythm of expansion of supply of goods and services and the increase of demand continue to be vital to the assessment of different possibilities of monetary policy stance. 
22. Aiming at consolidating a stable and predictable environment, the Copom adopts a strategy to avoid a volatile inflationary trajectory. This strategy takes into consideration the time lags in the transmission mechanisms and has proved to be the most adequate to deal with the uncertainty inherent to the process of monetary policy formulation and implementation. That is the reason why variables such as inflation projections, the balance of risks associated to the forward-looking scenario and, especially, the preventive stance in the decision-making process of the Copom are so important. At the current moment, characterized by the deterioration in current and expected inflationary dynamics, prudence assumes an even more important role in this process. In the current circumstances, there is the risk is that economic agents start to attribute higher probability that inflation increases will become persistent, which would reduce the efficacy of the monetary policy. Therefore, the Copom’s assessment, backed by international experience, is that the performance of monetary policy tends to be more effective, when the deterioration of inflationary dynamics is in its early stages, rather than when it is consolidated. The Committee believes that the present monetary policy stance, which will be kept while it is necessary, will assure the convergence of inflation towards the targets path. Evidently, if the risk profile deteriorates in a matter that implies shifts in the basic inflation prospective scenario considered at the present moment, the Committee will promptly adjust the monetary policy stance to the circumstances. 
23. The Copom evaluates that, in light of signals of economy heating, as illustrated by the acceleration of some wholesale prices and the evolution of core inflation measures, and by the fast increase in inflation expectations, the risks for the concretization of a benign inflationary scenario, in which IPCA would remain in line with the targets path, are relevant. In fact, the deterioration of the forward-looking scenario is already present in the Committee’s inflation projections. The Copom also considers that the persistence of significant mismatch between the paces of expansion of aggregate supply and demand tends to increase the risk for the inflationary dynamics. In these circumstances, monetary policy should act through the adjustment of the basic interest rate in order to, on the one hand, contribute to the convergence between the paces of expansion of aggregate supply and demand and, on the other hand, avoid that inflationary pressures initially focused on price indices lead to persistent deterioration of expectations and of the inflation forward-looking scenario. By acting as the balance of risks to inflation dynamics so requests, the Committee understands that it is, in fact, contributing to sustain economic growth, which requires stability, predictability and consequent extension of the planning horizon for businesses and families, as well as to protect the substantial increases in real income of workers observed in recent years. Therefore, the Copom ratifies that the decisions of monetary policy necessarily take into consideration the time lags of the transmission mechanism, and that they are part of a dynamic strategy, whose results will become evident throughout time. 
24. In this context, continuing the process of adjustment of the basic interest rate initiated in the April’s meeting, the Committee unanimously decided to raise the Selic target rate to 12.25% p.a., without bias. 
25. Under the inflation-targeting regime, the Copom decides according to inflation prospects, the analysis of several alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine the prospective price dynamics and the balance of risks associated to its projections. Domestic demand continues to expand vigorously, backing-up economic activity dynamism, including sectors little exposed to external competition, at a time when the effects of important incentive factors are still perceived. On its turn, the contribution of the external sector to a benign inflationary scenario, in light of robust domestic demand growth and the increase of global inflationary pressures, seems to become less effective, at a moment when the effects of investment over productive capacity of the economy still need to consolidate. In such environment, the monetary authority should act in order to avoid that short-term uncertainties contaminate longer time horizons. 