1. IPCA inflation changed from 0.26% in September to 0.45% in October and 0.36% in November. As a consequence, inflation reached 5.61% in the first eleven months of 2008 – the highest change in the period since 2004 – up from 3.69% in the same period of 2007. Twelve-month trailing inflation changed from 6.25% in September to 6.41% in October and 6.39% in November (4.19% in November 2007). Under this comparison basis, the acceleration of consumer price inflation mirrors the behavior of both regulated prices and market prices. Indeed, market prices and regulated prices increased 7.80% and 3.16%, respectively, in the twelve months through November, up from 5.03% and 2.31% in the twelve months through November 2007. Moreover, both prices of tradable goods and non-tradable goods accelerated, reaching 7.87% and 7.74% in twelve months, respectively (compared to 4.13 and 5.88% in November 2007). The price of services, whose dynamics tends to show more persistence than the prices of goods, increased 6.48% in the twelve months through November 2008, up from 6.36% in October, 6.27% in September and 4.89% in November 2007, an evolution that reflects the influence of domestic factors over the inflationary dynamics. Preliminary data for December point to consumer inflation index above that observed in November. In short, the reversal of the divergence trend of inflation from the targets path, which had been observed since the end of 2007, hasn’t consolidated yet, although the risk of an even higher deterioration of the inflationary dynamics has been reducing. 
2. The three main underlying inflation measures calculated by the BCB have reduced in the margin, in the last months. The core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices and the smoothed and non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation measures decreased from 0.62%, 0.45% and 0.41% in September, to 0.51%, 0.37% and 0.32% in October, and to 0.36, 0.35% and 0.28% in November, respectively. Similarly to the headline inflation, the three core inflation measures accelerated remarkably in the first eleven months of the year, compared to the same period of 2007, with increases from 3.50%, 3.62% and 3.16% to 5.74%, 4.48% and 4.57% for the core inflation by exclusion, smoothed and non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation, respectively. On a twelve-month trailing basis, the core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices rose from 6.26% in September to 6.38% in October and reduced to 6.36% in November. The smoothed and non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation slightly reduced, under this criterion, in the last months. The smoothed trimmed means core inflation changed from 4.97% in September to 4.91% in October and 4.90% in November, whereas the non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation fell from 5.15% in September to 5.11% in October and 5.04% in November. Despite the reduction observed in November, all core inflation measures remain above the central value for the inflation target. Moreover, it bears emphasizing that the behavior of the IPCA diffusion index, whose average in the year through November is the highest recorded since 2004, showed substantial increase in November, and continues to point to an inflationary process relatively disseminated, confirming the analysis present in previous Copom Minutes. 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) inflation changed from 1.09% in October to 0.07% in November. On a twelve-month trailing basis, IGP-DI inflation decreased to 11.20% in November, from 12.29% in October, compared to 6.60% in November 2007. In the twelve months through November, the IGP-DI increase reflected the behavior of its three main components. The Consumer Price Index-Brazil (IPC-Br) increased 6.27% (4.53% in November 2007), while the Wholesale Price Index (IPA-DI) totaled 12.88% (7.51% in November 2007). According to the same comparison basis, the Civil Construction National Index (INCC) increased 12.34% (5.92% in November 2007). Regarding IPA-DI, the inflationary acceleration, under this comparison basis, derives basically from the behavior of industrial prices. The agricultural IPA changed 7.38% (18.92% in November 2007), while the elevation of wholesale industrial prices reached 14.93% (3.76% in November 2007). In fact, despite the cooling in November, wholesale industrial prices increased 13.80% in the first eleven months of the year, up from 3.39% in the same period of 2007. As mentioned in previous Copom Minutes, the Copom evaluates that the effects of wholesale prices over consumer price inflation will depend on current and prospective demand conditions and price-setters’ expectations for the future inflation path. 
4. The IBGE released data for 2008 third quarter GDP. Data still show robust growth rates, both for accumulated results in the year (6.4% up from 6.2% in the previous quarter), and for year-over-year results (6.8% as against 6.2% in the previous quarter). On the aggregate demand side, gross fixed capital formation continued to post strong figures, growing by 19.7% in the third quarter of 2008, year-over-year. Household consumption grew by 7.3%, according to the same comparison basis, influenced by the expansions of credit and real payroll. The contribution of domestic absorption to GDP growth reached 9.3 p.p., overweighing the 2.5 p.p. negative impact stemming from the external sector. On the aggregate supply side, it bears emphasizing the increase in industrial production (7.1%), followed by the agricultural sector (6.4% growth) and by the services sector (5.9%), on a year-over-year basis. Regarding industrial activity, it bears highlighting the civil construction industry (11.7% expansion), benefited by public works and by the increase in credit to housing. The GDP deflator at market prices increased from 6.1% in the second quarter of the year, year-over-year, to 6.8% in the third quarter. 
5. On a three-month moving average basis, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, industrial output decreased 0.6% in October, after growing by 0.5% in the previous month. Still considering the seasonally adjusted series, after the 1.5% expansion observed in September, industrial output retreated by 1.7% in October, month-on-month, partially reflecting the programmed interruption in the petrochemical industry. Moreover, it bears noticing that general industrial output grew 5.8% in the year through October, with respective increases of 5.7% and 7.4% in manufacturing and in mining output. On a year-over-year basis, industrial output expanded by 0.8% in October (with one more working day), with respective growths of 7.2% and 0.4% in mining and manufacturing industries, respectively. The data already released for the last months point, in short, to the interruption of the industrial production expansion cycle, mainly due to the deterioration of global economic prospects and its effects over the Brazilian economy. 
6. Among the use categories, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, the production of capital goods decreased by 0.5% in October. Regarding the other use categories, intermediate goods production decreased 3.0%, semi-durable consumer goods production retreated by 2.2%, while the production of durable goods production reduced by 4.7%. In the year, capital goods production leads the expansion, with an 18.4% increase, followed by the 10.5% elevation in durable consumer goods production. The recent slowdown in capital goods production has been reflecting the intensification of the international financial turmoil and its consequences over business confidence. On its turn, the cooling in the pace of expansion of durable goods production reflects, predominantly, tighter credit conditions and the deterioration of consumer expectations. 
7. Labor market continues to present favorable performance, but with signs of accommodation in the generation of formal employment. The unemployment rate in the six metropolitan regions covered by the Monthly Labor Survey (PME) retreated from 7.6% in August and September, to 7.5% in October, down from 8.7% in October 2007. The October monthly result is the second lowest rate for the series, above only December last year, which stood at 7.4%. As a result, the average unemployment rate in the first ten months of the year was 1.6 p.p. below that observed in the same period of 2007. According to data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, the unemployment rate stood at 7.6%, the same rate recorded in September, at a historically low level. Nominal average earnings increased 12.0% in October, year-over-year, decelerating from the 13.7% rate observed in September, but maintained a robust pace. In October, average real earnings fell 1.3% month-on-month (4.5% expansion relative to October 2007). In the first ten months of the year, average real earnings increased 3.3%, while the number of occupied workers grew 3.9%. As a consequence, real payroll increased 7.4% (8.6% expansion in October, in year-over-year terms), continuing to constitute a key driver for domestic demand growth. According to the National Industry Confederation (CNI) data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, manufacturing employment increased by 0.1% in October (compared to 0.7% in September and 0.1% in August). In year-over-year terms, employment grew 3.9%, totaling 4.3% growth in the last twelve months. According to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, manufacturing employment increased by 0.1% in September (compared to a 0.1% fall in August and a 0.7% increase in July), totaling increases of 2.9% in the last twelve months and 2.2% year-over-year. Still regarding employment, data from the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) indicate loss of dynamism in the generation of formal employment in the margin, with the creation of 61.4 thousand jobs (compared to 282.8 thousand jobs in September this year and 205.3 thousand jobs in October 2007), as a result of the probable reassessment of businessmen regarding the effects of worsening of global difficulties. However, in the first ten months of the year, employment reached 2,148.0 thousand hires, 18.5% above the same period of the previous year, an evidence of the robust demand for work in the period. Formal employment grew by 0.2% in October, seasonally adjusted, and observed data point to a 6.4% expansion in the last twelve months. The retail sector recorded the highest hiring rate in October, with the creation of 54.6 thousand new jobs, followed by the services sector (36.1 thousand new jobs), by the manufacturing industry (8.7 thousand new jobs) and by civil construction (2.1 thousand new jobs). On the other hand, the agricultural sector, due to seasonal factors related to the inter-harvest observed in the Middle- Southern part of the country, was the only sector recording employment retreat (extinction of 38.4 thousand jobs). 
8. According to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, expanded retail sales increased by 4.0% in September, after decreasing 1.3% in August, and grew by 15.9% year-over-year in September and 13.8% in 2008 through September. Expanded retail sales three-month moving average increased 1.0% in September, month-on-month seasonally adjusted, after increasing by 0.1% in August and 0.9% in July. According to seasonally adjusted data, on a month-on-month basis, it bears emphasizing the expansion in the sales of “office material and equipment” (6.9%), followed by “vehicles and motorcycles, part and pieces” (5.5%) and “furniture and domestic appliances” (3.1%). In the year through September, cumulative growth was more significant in “office material and equipment” (33.7%), “vehicles and motorcycles, part and pieces” (20.7%) and “other personal and domestic articles” (20.3%). In October and November, expanded retail sales data should evidence the effects of credit supply restrictions and the deterioration of consumer confidence over vehicle sales, already captured by the data from the National Federation of Distribution of Automotive Vehicles – Fenabrave for these months. The steady growth of retail sales had been reflecting, in short, the performance of both the sectors more sensitive to income and employment expansions and those more sensitive to credit conditions. For the next quarters, the retail sales trajectory will continue to be favored by fiscal transfers, as well as by employment and income growth, but it will also be affected, in case of persistence, by the changes in the access to credit supply, and by the deterioration of consumer confidence.
9. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry reached 83.2% in October, slightly above the level observed in September, according to CNI data seasonally adjusted by the BCB. According to data seasonally adjusted by CNI, the Nuci in the manufacturing industry showed reduction, reaching 82.9% in October, down from 83.4% in September. Without the seasonal adjustment, the Nuci stood 0.1 p.p. above the level registered in October 2007, a record high for the series. As a consequence, the average rate in the first ten months of 2008 was 0.9 p.p. above the level observed in the same period of 2007. The monthly Nuci calculated by Fundação Getúlio Vargas (FGV) reached 85.2% in November, standing 2.0 p.p. below the level registered in the same month of 2007. The reduction in the Nuci in November 2008, year-over-year, is also observed in the production of consumer goods (-1.2 p.p.) and of intermediate goods (-2.7 p.p.). For the capital goods sector, the Nuci showed stability compared to the level observed in November 2007 while for the production of civil construction inputs the Nuci presented a 1.9 p.p. increase. The reduction on Nuci calculated by FGV seems to be a result of a combination between investment projects maturity with softening on economic activity, which should point to a start of less pressure over the idle capacity level. Recent data about the absorption of capital goods still show a strong expansion compared to the same periods of 2007. The absorption of capital goods decreased 1.0% in October, according to seasonally adjusted data, accumulating a 22.7% expansion in 2008, in observed terms, compared to 3.9% and 22.2% in September, respectively, according to the same comparison bases. On the other hand, the production of civil construction inputs showed stability at the margin in October, after decreasing by 1.5% in September, accumulating a 10.5% growth in 2008 (10.9% growth in 2008 through September). Although not widespread, evidences so far suggest to an ongoing process of reduction in the mismatches regarding the evolution of supply and domestic demand. As stressed in previous Copom Minutes, the inflation trajectory is closely linked to current and prospective developments related to the expansion of supply of goods and services, to adequately meet demand conditions. 
10. The trade balance continues to register deceleration at the margin, an already anticipated trend, and which is in line with assessments present in previous Inflation Reports and Copom Minutes. In the last twelve months through November the trade surplus reached US$26.1 billion (37% below November 2007). In the same period, exports and imports totaled US$198.4 billion and US$172.3 billion, equivalent to 25.0% and 46.9% growth, respectively, year-over-year. The reversal on the strengthening trend of the BRL and the softening on the pace of expansion of domestic demand may contribute to a recover on the trade surplus, notwithstanding the reduction on price levels of exports acting on the opposite direction. The decrease in trade surplus contributed to the US$26.6 billion current account deficit registered in the twelve months through October 2008, equivalent to 1.7% of GDP. Foreign direct investment reached US$38.2 billion in the twelve months through October, equivalent to 2.5% of GDP. 
11. The period since the last Copom meeting was marked by the continuity of stress on international financial markets, which originated in the US and Europe, but whose impact on emerging economies has become more significant. The increased risk aversion, observed since mid-September, after the bankruptcy of an important US financial institution, led the authorities in the US, Europe and Oceania to intervene in an unprecedentedly way in their financial systems, using wide range of instruments, in order to ensure minimum conditions of operation and liquidity in money markets. Although systemic risk perception has showed moderation, pressures on the functioning of the interbank markets came back resulting from the nearness of the end of the year and the closing of the balance sheets of financial institutions. The international liquidity contraction has been contributing to a deleverage process by asset managers, which in turn has been pressuring down the prices of financial assets. In an environment of increased risk aversion and shortage of capital flows, pressures on emerging economies’ currencies have been kept. 
12. Regarding the global macroeconomic scenario, at least in the short term the contraction trends prevail over the inflationary pressures. The dominant view still points to the expansion, at a modest pace, of global economic activity in 2009, but data released in the last weeks indicate a more intense and generalized cooling of activity in mature economies and also in some emerging economies. There are evidences that the deeper weakening of economic activity in Europe and parts of Asia was predominantly due to the negative shock in the terms of trade caused by the elevation of commodities prices, which could be reversing. On the other hand, the problems in the financial system have been aggravated by a cyclical deterioration in credit quality, which may reinforce the contraction in financial conditions and, as a consequence, the risk of intensification of deceleration. The US economy, in particular, entered into recession at the end of 2007 and still continues to suffer the impacts of the housing sector crisis, with spillover effects on the labor market, whose weakening, together with the negative wealth effect associated to the fall in the prices of financial assets, has affected the consumers’ confidence, significantly contributing for depressing expenditure. The prevailing interpretation is that the activity in Europe and Japan may continue to lose dynamism in the next months. In mature economies, where inflation expectations are better anchored and economic activity is decelerating considerably, inflationary pressures have reduced fast. On the other hand, in emerging economies, where the secondary effects of raw materials price increases over consumer prices and the heated demand pressures over the supply expansion capacity had been more intense, the inflationary pressures have been more persistent. In this context, the monetary policy stance is mainly expansionist in mature economies, whereas in emerging economies, which have been affected by the exchange rate depreciation trend, in addition to the facts already mentioned, the reaction seems to be more heterogeneous. It is worth pointing that, particularly in mature economies, the authorities are announcing a series of initiatives aimed at sustaining the economic activity, particularly through fiscal incentives, which could contribute to a gradual economic recovery. 
13. Oil prices remain highly volatile, but reduced considerably since the last Copom meeting. Future markets have followed, in general, the prices of oil in the spot market. However, uncertainty concerning oil prices is remarkably high, as the prospective scenario depends on the evolution of demand, especially in emerging countries, on the supply’s reaction to stimuli derived from previous changes on relative prices, in addition to geopolitical issues that affect the price of this commodity. Nonetheless, despite the great uncertainty inherent to the projections of oil prices’ trajectory, the main scenario adopted by the Copom, which assumes unchanged gasoline prices in 2008, remains plausible but with the persistence of the current framework of the oil market, it does not seem prudent to completely disregard the hypothesis that price reductions for oil can occur in 2009. However, it bears highlighting that, regardless of the behavior of domestic gasoline prices, the reduction of international oil prices can affect domestic prices both through productive chains, such as the petrochemical, as well as through the potential effect over inflation expectations. The prices of other commodities also showed important reductions since the last Copom meeting, reacting both to the greater pessimism about the prospects for global economic growth and to the continuity of the global financial markets turmoil. 
14. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations was based in the following assumptions: 
a) compared to the values considered in the October Copom meeting, the projected adjustment for 2008 for gasoline prices was maintained at 0%, whereas for bottled gas price was revised to 2.6%; 
b) compared to the values considered in the October Copom meeting, the projected adjustment for 2008 for fixed telephone price was revised to 3.6% from 3.5%, while for electricity prices was maintained unchanged at 1.1%; 
c) the projection for regulated prices inflation in 2008, based on individual items, was altered to 3.5%, down from the 3.8% considered in the October meeting. This set of prices, according to data released by the IGBE, corresponded to 29.62% of the total November IPCA; 
d) the projection for regulated prices inflation in 2009 was maintained unchanged at 5.5%. This projection is based on the endogenous determination model for regulated prices, which computes seasonal components, foreign exchange rate changes, market prices inflation and the IGP (General Price Index) variation; 
e) the projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, on the benchmark scenario, based on the 360- day swap rates, estimates a 180 bps spread in the fourth quarter of 2008 and 102 bps in the last quarter of 2009. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. 
15. Regarding fiscal policy, the projections assume the achievement of the public sector primary surplus target of 3.8% of GDP in 2008 and 2009, increased by 0.5 p.p. The related assumptions considered in the previous meeting were maintained. 
16. Since the last Copom meeting, according to the median IPCA inflation expectations compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations Group (Gerin), the 2008 IPCA variation showed reduction to 6.20% from 6.29%. Twelve-month ahead inflation expectations increased slightly to 5.34%, from 5.29%, considering the medians of expected monthly rates. Inflation expectations for 2009 increased to 5.20%, from 5.00%. 
17. Considering the hypotheses under the benchmark scenario – which assumes the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$2,40/US$1.00 and the Selic rate at 13.75% during the forecast period – the projection for the 2008 IPCA inflation slightly decreased relative to the figure considered in the October Copom meeting, but remained above the 4.5% target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). According to the forecast based on the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin on the eve of the Copom meeting – IPCA inflation forecast for 2008 also decreased compared to the figure considered in the previous Copom meeting, but remained, therefore, above the central target for the year. Regarding 2009, both projections based on the benchmark scenario and on the market scenario showed a decrease, in relation to the figures forecast in the previous Copom meeting, but are above the 4.5% central target for that year (benchmark scenario) and around this value (market scenario). 
18. The Copom evaluates that the monetary policy should contribute for the consolidation of a favorable long-term macroeconomic environment. Economic activity data indicate that the pace of domestic demand expansion continued quite robust until the third quarter, and it is at least partially responsible for the inflationary acceleration trend, despite strong imports growth and the favorable investment performance in line with assessments present in previous Copom Minutes. Additionally, the increase in risk aversion and the unprecedentedly constraints observed in liquidity conditions in the international markets impose adjustments in the balance of payments which, despite the increase in Brazilian economy external resilience, can increase the inflationary pressures, especially in the short run. In general terms, the influence of the external scenario on the future trajectory of Brazilian inflation continues to be subject to contradictory effects, which can act with distinct intensity throughout time and surrounded by significant uncertainties. On the one hand, more generalized deceleration of global economic activity in the upcoming quarters points to a cooling of both commodities prices and external demand, therefore influencing negatively the local financial conditions. On the other hand, the economic cooling has caused an increase in risk aversion, impacting the demand for Brazilian assets, and consequently, depreciating their prices. Moreover, the recent trajectory of price indices evidences the reduction of inflationary external pressures, especially in mature economies, but also in emerging economies, with important implications on domestic inflationary trajectory. The Committee evaluates that the risk of materialization of a less benign scenario retreated when compared to the risk prevailing months ago, but is still relevant. The Copom emphasizes that the main challenge of monetary policy in this context is to guarantee the maintenance of favorable results achieved in the last years. Particularly, monetary policy should act to avoid that the deterioration of inflation dynamics observed in 2008 become persistent. 
19. The Copom evaluates that the probability that initially localized inflationary pressures may cause risks to domestic inflation trajectory could be lowering. The evidences of cooling of domestic demand, and more incipient, of accommodation of pressures on the market of factors, despite under uncertainty, may mitigate the pass- through of wholesale prices pressures to consumer price inflation. The Committee evaluates that the materialization of this pass-through and the generalization of pressures initially localized on consumer prices depend critically on inflation expectations, which still remain in levels above the inflation targets path and continue to be carefully monitored. Additionally, it is worth pointing that, according to recent data and the indicators available so far, the heating of domestic demand was still pressuring the prices of non-tradable items, as services. In this context, the Copom will act to ensure that the gains obtained in inflation control in recent years become permanent. 
20. The maintenance of inflation rates in line with the targets path and the consequent consolidation of a long-term stable macroeconomic environment will contribute for the progressive reduction of macroeconomic risk perception. The Copom evaluates that the persistence of a cautious and timely monetary policy stance is essential to increase the probability that inflation in Brazil evolve once again according to the targets path in 2009. For this higher probability to continue to materialize, however, it is necessary that forward-looking inflation indicators, particularly the expected dynamics of aggregate supply and demand, converge throughout the relevant period for the monetary policy. 
21. The Copom emphasizes, once again, that there are important time lags between the implementation of monetary policy and its effects on economic activity and inflation. Therefore, the evaluation of alternative options for monetary policy should necessarily focus on the forward-looking inflation scenario and its risks, instead of current inflation indices. This viewpoint is even more important in periods of higher uncertainty. 
22. The prospects for the evolution of economic activity deteriorated since the last Copom meeting. In particular, the effects of the international crisis on the domestic financial conditions indicate that the contribution of credit to support domestic demand may decline more intensively and, possibly, more persistently than the magnitude of what would happen exclusively by the monetary policy lagged effects. Additionally, the intensification of international crisis has caused a negative effect on consumers’ and businesses’ confidence. If this situation persists, the strength of economic activity would increasingly depend on real payroll expansion and the effects of governmental transfers expected for this and the next quarters. These considerations become even more relevant considering the fact that the monetary policy decisions will have concentrated impacts in 2009. 
23. The Copom highlights the important contribution of investment to expand productive capacity. Moreover, it bears noticing that the accommodation of commodities prices could contribute to restrain inflationary pressures. However, the Copom evaluates that, particularly in the short run, the main risk to the inflationary dynamics derives from the trajectory of Brazilian asset prices, in a process of decreasing external funding. If trends observed since the last Copom meeting prevail, the pace of domestic demand expansion could not present important risks to prices dynamics anymore, which would contribute to limit the inflationary impact of balance of payments adjustment. In this context, the pace of reduction of the mismatch between the growth of aggregate demand and supply of goods and services, relevant up to the third quarter, continues to be crucial to the assessment of different possibilities for the monetary policy stance. 
24. International evidence, as well as the Brazilian experience, indicates that high inflation rates lead to higher risk premia, to shorter planning horizons and, consequently, to lower potential economic growth, besides having regressive effects on income distribution. Moreover, in the current circumstances, there is the risk that economic agents start to attribute higher probability to the fact that inflation acceleration become persistent, reducing the efficacy of monetary policy. On the other hand, the shortage of financing conditions in the economy amplifies monetary policy effects, contributing to promote inflation convergence to the targets path. Therefore, Copom’s strategy aims to bring inflation rates in 2009 timely back to the 4.5% midpoint target established by CMN. This strategy, which will have its results evidenced throughout time, takes into account the time lags in the transmission mechanism and is the most adequate to deal with uncertainties inherent to the process of monetary policy formulation and implementation. 
25. The Copom evaluates that, in light of signs, evidenced after the last meeting, of economic activity slowdown (relative among others to industrial production indicators, some data on the labor market and industrial capacity utilization rates, as well as confidence of consumers and businessmen), as well as inflation expectations behavior, risks against the materialization of a benign inflation scenario, in which IPCA would resume evolution in line with the targets path, are less influential but still relevant. Indeed, prospective scenario evolution has started to reflect on inflation projections considered by the Committee. The Copom also understands that the probability of persistence of mismatch between growth pace of aggregate supply and demand, that continues to represent risk for inflation dynamics, has diminished. Under these circumstances, monetary policy should be cautiously conducted, aiming to assure inflation convergence to the targets path. 
26. The Copom believes that the consolidation of restrictive financial conditions for a longer period could significantly intensify monetary policy effects over demand and, throughout time, over inflation. Under these circumstances, the majority of the Committee members, taking into account the balance of risks for economic activity, and therefore for the inflation scenario in 2009, debated the possibility of a 25 bps reduction of the Selic rate. However, the understanding that inflation central prospective path would still justify the maintenance of the Selic rate unchanged has prevailed. 
27. Other Copom members considered that the still remaining risks for inflationary dynamics, resulting from the possible persistence of inflation increases in 2008 and consequences of the adjusting process of balance of payments are still predominantly conditioning the various alternatives for monetary policy. 
28. In such context, having the majority of Committee members discussed the possibility of reducing the Selic rate at this meeting, in a macroeconomic environment surrounded by severe uncertainty, the Copom unanimously decided, at this moment, to keep unchanged the Selic rate at 13.75% p.a., without bias. The Copom will closely monitor the prospective scenario evolution for inflation in order to timely define the next steps for its monetary policy strategy. 
29. Under the inflation-targeting regime, the Copom guides its decisions according to the projected inflation, the analysis of several alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine the forward-looking prices dynamics and the balance of risks associated to their projections. There are signs that domestic demand expansion rhythm, which remained expanding at high rates in the third quarter, would be currently contributing less intensely for the economic activity dynamics, in spite of persistence of stimulus factors such as income growth influencing the economy. On the other hand, the contribution of the external sector to a favorable inflationary scenario, in light of the strong depreciation in the prices of Brazilian assets and the apparent reduction in the country’s capacity to import, has become less effective. In such environment, the monetary policy should act so to bring inflation back to the targets path already in 2009, in order to avoid that the higher uncertainty detected in shorter-term horizons disseminate to longer-term periods, thus favoring a sustained recovery of economic activity. Evidently, if the risk profile changes in a way that implies shifts in the basic prospective scenario for inflation considered by the Committee in this meeting, the monetary policy stance will be promptly adjusted to the circumstances.