1. IPCA inflation increased 0.36% in June, down from 0.47% in May. As a consequence, inflation accumulated in the first half of 2009 reached 2.57%, decreasing 1.08 p.p. relative to the level registered in the same period of the previous year. In the last twelve months, inflation decreased to 4.80% in June, down from 5.20% in May (5.90% in December 2008 and 6.06% in June 2008). The deceleration of twelve-month consumer price trailing inflation in the first six months of the year mirrored the behavior of market prices, as regulated prices increased. Considering market prices, both prices of tradable goods and non-tradable goods cooled on a twelve-month trailing basis, reaching 4.45% and 5.70%, respectively, in June, down from 6.99% and 7.10% in December 2008 (7.78% and 8.16% in the same month of the previous year). However, according to the same comparison basis, the prices of services, whose dynamics tends to show more persistence than that of the prices of goods, increased from 6.39% in December to 7.21% in June (5.75% in June 2008). Preliminary data for July point to consumer inflation below that observed in June. In short, information available suggest that the inflationary cycle observed last year has been gradually overcome by a process that should continue to be led by the behavior of market prices, while regulated price inflation should show more persistence.
2. The three main underlying inflation measures calculated by the BCB decreased in June. The core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices decreased from 0.56% in May to 0.32% in June. Smoothed and non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation measures also retreated, recording 0.44% and 0.39% in May, and 0.39% and 0.28% in June, respectively. The twelve-month trailing inflation measures changed from 6.09%, 4.82% and 4.92% in December to 5.72%, 4.54% and 4.13% in June, for the core inflation by exclusion, smoothed and non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation, respectively, evidencing convergence for the midpoint of the target. Moreover, it bears emphasizing that the behavior of the IPCA diffusion index reduced from 61.7% in December to 59.1% in June (compared to 67.2% in June 2008). 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) inflation changed from 0.18% in May to -0.32% in June. On a twelve-month trailing basis, the IGP-DI inflation decreased from 2.99% in May to 0.76% in June, compared to 13.96% in June 2008. The slowdown of the IGP-DI has basically reflected the behavior of its main component, the Wholesale Price Index (IPA-DI), which decreased from 1.18% in May to -1.72% in June, according to the same comparison basis (17.90% in June 2008). On its turn, the Consumer Price Index-Brazil (IPC-Br) increased 4.87% up to June (5.96% in June 2008) and the Civil Construction National Index (INCC) increased 7.67% (9.13% in June 2008). Regarding the IPA-DI, the inflationary deceleration, under this comparison basis, derives basically from the behavior of both agricultural and industrial prices. The agricultural IPA reached -4.87% (37.91% in June 2008), while wholesale industrial prices reached -0.43% (11.58% in June 2008). As mentioned in previous Copom Minutes, the Copom evaluates that the effects of wholesale prices over consumer price inflation will depend on current and prospective demand conditions and price-setters’ expectations for the future inflation path. 
4. On a three-month moving average basis, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, industrial output increased 1.1% in May, after increasing by 1.4% in the previous month. Still considering the seasonally adjusted series, industrial output increased by 1.3% in May month-on-month, after expanding by 1.2% in April. On a year-over-year basis, industrial output retreated by 11.3% in May, with respective falls of 14.2% and 11.1% in mining and manufacturing industries. The analysis of the behavior of IBGE industrial output series and its components, at the margin, according to data available, suggests that production reached its record low in December-January, and was followed by gradual recovery. However, industrial activity recovery continues to be influenced by the international crisis, due to its effects both over exports and credit conditions, and over business and households’ expectations. 
5. Among the use categories, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, it bears highlighting the 3.8% increase in the production of durable consumer goods, strongly influenced by the automotive sector. Regarding the other use categories, intermediate goods production increased 1.2% in May, non-durable and semi-durable consumer goods production increased 1.3%, while the production of capital goods increased by 0.7%.The recovery, at the margin, in the dynamism of industrial production, led by production of the durable goods, reflects, predominantly, tax exemption measures and also some easing of credit conditions. The future behavior of industrial production recovery, which should not be uniform over time, will depend on these factors, as well as on the gradual recovery of consumer and businessmen confidence, counterbalancing the deterioration of external demand. 
6. Labor market has continued to record ambiguous indicators, combining positive aspects with signs of loss of strength. The unemployment rate in the six metropolitan regions covered by the Monthly Labor Survey (PME) changed from 8.9% in April to 8.8% in May (7.9% in May 2008). According to the seasonally adjusted series, the unemployment rate reached 8.4% in May, up from 8.3% in April. Average real earnings increased by 3% in May, in year-over-year terms. Employment, on its turn, expanded by 0.2% in May, according to the same comparison basis. As a consequence, real payroll reached 3.3% in May, continuing to constitute a key driver for domestic demand growth. According to the National Industry Confederation (CNI) data, manufacturing employment decreased by 4.1% in May, in year-over-year terms, and expanded by 1.1% on a twelve-month trailing basis. According to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, manufacturing employment decreased by 1.1% in the last twelve months and fell by 6% in year-over-year terms. Still regarding the labor market, data from the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) indicate that the generation of formal employment has continued to record some recovery, despite below the seasonal pattern. In June, 119,495 jobs were created (compared to the positive result of 131,557 in May). The manufacturing industry showed positive balance for the third consecutive month. Similarly, the commerce sector continued the recovery trajectory initiated in April, with the positive result of 17,522 jobs. On the other hand, the civil construction sector and the services sector continued hiring workers this month: 18,321 and 22,877 jobs, respectively. The agricultural sector showed the greatest dynamism, generating 57,169 jobs. 
7. According to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, expanded retail sales increased by 3.7% in May, after decreasing by 3.3% in April. On a year-over-year basis, the indicator increased by 3.3%, growing by 2.7% in the year. The three-month moving average of expanded retail sales reached 0.6% in May, according to seasonally adjusted data, after recording 0.2% in April. On a month-on-month basis, according to seasonally adjusted data, it bears emphasizing the expansion in the sales of “vehicles, motorcycles, parts and pieces” (8.0%) and “construction inputs” (5.7%). The negative key drivers were “office material and equipment” (-11.6%) and “hyper, supermarket and food articles” (0.1%). In the year, cumulative growth was more significant in “office material and equipment” (15.3%) and “pharmaceutical and medical articles” (11.6%). After consecutive falls in the last months of 2008, expanded retail sales data have evidenced recovery, mainly influenced by the increase in the sales of vehicles, in response to sector incentives granted by the government and to some improvement in the access to vehicle credit supply. For the next quarters, the retail sales trajectory will continue to be sustained by fiscal transfers, as well as by real payroll growth, whose evolution should be favored by the reduction of inflation, but it will also be affected by the recovery in the access to credit supply and by the behavior of consumer confidence. 
8. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry reached 79.4% in May, slightly above the level observed in April, according to CNI data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, and 1.17 p.p. above the record low reached in February. The series seasonally adjusted by CNI increased to 79.8% in May, up from 79.4% in April. Considering the monthly series without seasonal adjustment, in May the Nuci was 3.3 p.p. below the level registered in the same month of 2008. On its turn, the monthly Nuci without seasonal adjustment, calculated by Fundação Getúlio Vargas (FGV), increased in June to 79.1%, up from 78.7% in May, 7.2 p.p. below the level observed in the same month of 2008. The reduction in the Nuci according to the year-over-year comparison is also observed in the production of consumer goods (-4.3 p.p.), intermediate goods (-7.6 p.p.), capital goods (-15.5 p.p.) and construction inputs (-4.3 p.p.). The reduction on the Nuci calculated by CNI and FGV, according to the same comparison basis, seems to be a result of a combination between the maturity of investment projects and accommodation of economic activity, and points to significant idle capacity in the manufacturing industry. Regarding the absorption of capital goods, data indicate continuity of retraction year-over-year and expansion at the margin. The absorption of capital goods increased by 0.4% in May (after a 1.5% increase in April), according to seasonally adjusted data, and decreased 17.8% in year-over-year terms, according to observed data. On its turn, the production of construction inputs decreased by 0.3% at the margin in May, after a 0.1% increase in April, accumulating a 10.5% fall in the year. In short, evidences suggest that demand pressures over the productive capacity level of the manufacturing industry reduced, although the ones regarding the utilization rates have increased in the last months. As stressed in previous Copom Minutes, the inflation trajectory is closely linked to current and prospective developments related to the expansion of supply of goods and services to adequately meet demand conditions. 
9. The twelve-month cumulative trade balance recovered at the margin. Under this comparison basis, the trade surplus reached US$27.0 billion in April, decreased to US$25.6 billion in May and expanded to US$27.5 billion in June. This total resulted from US$ 177.2 billion in exports and US$149.7 billion in imports, equivalent to -0.5% and 1.6% changes, respectively, year-over-year. The adjustment in relative prices and the accommodation in the pace of expansion of domestic demand contribute to the recovery of the trade surplus, but the deterioration in the terms of trade acts on the opposite direction. The reduction in remittances of profits and dividends has contributed to limit the current account deficit, which reached US$28.2 billion in December 2008, decreasing to US$20.7 billion in April, equivalent to 1.5% of GDP. On its turn, foreign direct investment reached US$42.3 billion in the twelve months through May, equivalent to 3.1% of GDP. 
10. The period since the last Copom meeting was marked by the continuity of stress reduction in international financial markets, despite not in a monotonic way. The unprecedented actions taken by the authorities in the US and Europe, using a wide range of instruments, in order to ensure minimum conditions of operation and liquidity in monetary markets, have continued to moderate the perception of systemic risk. In this environment, there have been signs of reduction in risk aversion, but confidence recovery remains fragile and subject to reversals. Anyway, the decreasing trend of risk aversion and scarcity of capital flows, as well as some concern about the fiscal situation in the US, continued to encourage the recovery of currencies, both from emerging and mature economies, against the US dollar. 
11. Regarding the global macroeconomic scenario, contraction trends prevail over inflationary pressures. The current predominant view points to the contraction of global economic activity in 2009, with recovery only in 2010. The consensual projections point to a retraction of activity in the US, Europe and Japan (G3), which wouldn’t be totally offset by the economic dynamism of some emerging economies, especially in Asia. However, there are evidences that economic activity in G3 could be stabilizing, with signs of resilience in consumption in the US and recovery of manufacturing activity in Germany and Japan. On the other hand, the problems in the international financial system might continue to be aggravated by the cyclical deterioration in the quality of credit, focused on the US and Europe, which could reinforce the contraction in the financial conditions and, as a consequence, the risk of new intensification in the deceleration. In mature economies, where inflation expectations are better anchored and economic activity has decelerated considerably and for a longer period, inflationary pressures reduced rapidly. The disinflation process seems to have gained momentum also in the emerging economies, in spite of greater persistence of the inflationary dynamics. In this context, monetary policies stances have become highly expansionist and focused on non-traditional instruments in the mature economies, while the expansionist stance in the emerging economies has been more moderate. At the same time, the authorities in the US, Western Europe and Asia announced a series of important initiatives aimed at sustaining economic activity through fiscal incentives, which can contribute to a gradual economic recovery. It’s important to notice, however, that the estimates on the fiscal costs for macroeconomic stimulus and support packages to the financial sector are high, which has caused pressures over the risk assessment of several sovereign credits, even in advanced economies. The accumulation of signs showing that global economy could be close to an inflexion point, as well as the deterioration of public finance, have resulted in the elevation of interest rate forward structure in advanced mature economies. 
12. Oil prices have shown high volatility since the last Copom meeting. However, future markets quotations decreased. Uncertainty concerning these quotations remains high, as the prospective scenario depends on the evolution of demand, especially in emerging economies, on the prospects for the evolution of global supply, subject to the pace of investments maturation in the sector, in addition to the geopolitical issues that affect the price of this commodity. Nonetheless, despite the high uncertainty inherent to the projections regarding the trajectory of oil prices, the main scenario adopted by the Copom assumes unchanged gasoline prices in the rest of 2009. However, it bears highlighting that, regardless the behavior of domestic gasoline prices, the evolution of international oil prices can affect domestic prices through productive chains, such as the petrochemical, or through the transportation costs for industry, as well as through the potential effect over inflation expectations. It bears emphasizing that the behavior of agricultural commodity prices, which have particularly important impact in the evolution of food costs, such as wheat, soybeans and corn, recorded significant increases since the last Copom meeting. 
13. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations was based in the following assumptions: 
a) similarly to the June Copom meeting, the projected adjustments for gasoline and bottled gas prices for 2009 were kept unchanged at 0%, 
b) the projected adjustments for fixed telephone for 2009 was kept unchanged at 5.0% relative to the June Copom meeting, while the expected adjustment for electricity prices increased to 5.0, up from 4.7%, 
c) the projection for regulated prices inflation for 2009, based on individual items, was reduced to 4.5%, down from 4.8%, considered at the June Copom meeting. This set of prices, according to data released by the IBGE, corresponded to 29.50% of the total June IPCA, 
d) the projection for regulated prices inflation for 2010 reduced to 4.3%, against 4.5% relative to the June Copom meeting. Such projection is based on the endogenous determination model for regulated prices, which computes, among other factors, seasonal components, foreign exchange rate changes, market prices inflation and the IGP (General Price Index) variation, 
e) the projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, based on the 360-day swap rates, on the benchmark scenario, estimates a 17 bps spread in the fourth quarter of 2009 and 39 bps in the last quarter of 2010. 
14. Regarding fiscal policy, the projections assume the achievement of a public sector primary surplus target of 2.5% of GDP in 2009 and 3.3% in 2010, unchanged relative to the June meeting. Those figures do not take into account Petrobras contribution to the public sector primary surplus and are adjusted by the possibility of reduction by up to 0.50% in 2009 due to the implementation of the Investment Pilot Program (PPI) and 0.65% in 2010 due to the PPI implementation and the Growth Acceleration Program (PAC). The additional assumptions considered in the previous meeting remained unchanged. 
15. Since the last Copom meeting, according to the median IPCA inflation expectations compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations Office (Gerin), the 2009 IPCA increased from 4.33% to 4.53%. For 2010, inflation expectations also increased between the June and the July meeting, reaching 4.41%, up from 4.30%. 
16. Considering the hypotheses under the benchmark scenario – which assumes the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$/US$1.95 and the Selic rate at 9.25% p.a. during the forecast period – the projection for 2009 inflation increased relative to the figure considered at the June Copom meeting and is close to the 4.50% target established by the National Monetary Concil (CMN). According to the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin on the eve of the Copom meeting – IPCA inflation forecast for 2009 also increased compared to the figure considered in the previous Copom meeting and is also close to the inflation midpoint target. Inflation projection for 2010 based on the benchmark scenario increased relative to the figure considered in the June Copom meeting and is below the 4.50% inflation target. Under the market scenario, inflation projection for 2010 increased, but remains close to target. 
17. The Copom evaluates that the monetary policy should contribute to the consolidation of a favorable long-term macroeconomic environment. The risk aversion increase and the constraint of liquidity conditions prevailing in international markets continue to impose adjustments in the balance of payments, but show significant easing at the margin. In fact, since the last Copom meeting, signs of a global risk aversion reduction continue to accumulate, despite still subject to reversion, with impacts over both Brazilian asset prices, as well as over selected commodities, also influencing domestic financial conditions. However, it bears emphasizing that the trajectory of price indices still evidences reduction of external inflationary pressures, especially in mature economies, but also in some emerging economies. Consequently, despite the increase in commodities prices since early 2009, the net impact of the global deceleration over the domestic inflation path continues to be, until present, predominantly benign. The Copom emphasizes that the main challenge of monetary policy in such context is to ensure that the favorable results obtained over the last years are preserved.
18. The Copom evaluates that the probability that initially localized inflationary pressures may impose risks to the inflationary trajectory is limited. The moderation of domestic demand pressures over the market of factors, despite remaining subject to uncertainties, should contain the risk of pass-through of upward pressures stemming from wholesale prices (which, apart from that, have shown deflation over the past few months) over consumer prices. The Committee evaluates, however, that the materialization of such pass-through, as well as the generalization of pressures initially localized over consumer prices, still depends critically on economic agents’ inflation expectations. Inflation expectations for 2009 and 2010 remain in line with the targets path, but have increased since the last Copom meeting and continue to be closely monitored. Additionally, it is worth noticing that, according to available data, the behavior of domestic demand should exert less pressure over the prices of non-tradable items, such as services, in the upcoming quarters. Anyhow, the Committee reaffirms that it will continue to conduct its actions in order to ensure that the gains on inflation control obtained in recent years become permanent. 
19. The Copom emphasizes, once more, that there are important time lags between the implementation of monetary policy and its effects on economic activity and inflation. Therefore, the evaluation of alternative options for monetary policy should necessarily focus on the forward-looking inflation scenario and its risks, instead of current inflation indices. Such considerations become even more relevant in periods surrounded by heightened uncertainty. The Committee reaffirms that specific asset price movements are only relevant for monetary policy if they impact the forward-looking inflationary path. 
20. Prospects for the evolution of economic activity have continued to improve since the last Copom meeting, in particular relative to consumption, though data on industrial production remain reflecting the accommodation of external demand and investment. In light of the international crisis effects over domestic financial conditions, credit contribution to sustain domestic demand has diminished although signs of recovery cumulate, in particular regarding credit loans to individuals. The severity of the international crisis influenced negatively consumers and businessmen confidence, but in this case there are also more consistent signs of recovery. Under such circumstances, the rhythm of economic activity resumption strongly depends on real payroll expansion and on the effect of governmental transfers that will occur in 2009, and it should also benefit from the gradual easing of financial conditions. In short, the most recent data on domestic economic activity seem to reinforce the evaluation, mentioned in previous Copom meetings minutes, that the contractionary effects of the international financial crisis over the domestic economy dynamism and, consequently, over the context on which the monetary policy operates, could become persistent, but wouldn’t be permanent. These considerations become even more relevant considering the fact that the current monetary policy decisions will have impacts concentrated in the final months of 2009 and, particularly in 2010. 
21. The Copom understands that the loss of domestic demand dynamism has caused an increase in the idleness margin of factors utilization, resulting in reduction of inflationary pressures. On the other hand, the risks to the consolidation of a benign inflationary scenario derive, on the short term, from price adjustment mechanisms that contribute to lengthen inflationary pressures observed in the past, as evidenced by the behavior of services prices and regulated items since the beginning of 2009, as well as from a possible increase in commodities prices. In the medium-term, the risk stems from the cumulative and lagged effects, from the financial conditions easing over the evolution of domestic demand, taking into account the dynamics of consumption and investment, in a context of recovery of production factors utilization. The balance of those influences over the inflationary prospective trajectory will be crucial to the assessment of the various alternatives available for the monetary policy stance. 
22. International evidence, as well as the Brazilian experience, indicates that high inflation rates leads to the increase of risk premium, for both private and public funding, to the shortening of planning horizons and, consequently, to lower potential economic growth, besides having regressive effects over income distribution. As a consequence, the Copom strategy aims to ensure that inflation resumes the 4.5% midpoint target in 2009, as established by the CMN and to keep it in line with the target path in 2010 and 2011. Such strategy, which should have its results evidenced throughout time, takes into account the time lags in the transmission mechanisms and is the most adequate to deal with the uncertainty inherent to the process of monetary policy formulation and implementation. 
23. The Copom evaluates that, in light of the increase of the idleness margin of the economy relative, in particular, to the industrial capacity utilization rates and labor market indicators, as well as to the behavior of inflation expectations for relevant horizons, the prospects for the materialization of a benign inflation scenario, in which the IPCA would resume evolution in line with the target path, have remained favorable. Such evolution of the forward-looking scenario is reflected on inflation projections considered by the Committee, as well as on inflation expectations set by independent analysts. Under such circumstances, in order to preserve the improvement of the prospective inflation scenario, under a macroeconomic scenario with significant uncertainty, the Copom evaluates that monetary policy should maintain a cautious stance, aiming to assure the convergence of inflation to the targets path. 
24. The Committee understands that the demand accommodation, motivated by tightening of financial conditions and by the deterioration of agents’ confidence, although marginal improvements continue to be observed, as well as by the global economic activity contraction, which could also be cooling, has created significant idleness margin of production factors, which should not be rapidly eliminated in a basic scenario of gradual recovery of economic activity. The Copom also emphasizes that uncertainties around such basic scenario remain, with positive and negative biases over the pace of economic activity recovery. Anyhow, such development, contemplated under the basic scenario, should contribute to restrain inflationary pressures. On the other hand, the Committee notices that the significant monetary policy easing, implemented since January will have cumulative effects over the economy, which will be evidenced with a time lag. 
25. The Committee understands that decisions regarding the evolution of the basic interest rate have to take into account the magnitude of the total adjustment made since January, whose impacts on several economic indicators will be evident over time. The Copom also evaluates that a more cautious stance will contribute to mitigate the risk of abrupt reversals of monetary policy in the future and, therefore, to the consistent recovery of the economy over the next quarters. The Copom also evaluates that the preservation of benign inflationary prospects will require that the behavior of the financial system and the economy under a new level of interest rates be closely monitored over time. 
26. Although some committee members think that there would be room to keep the basic interest rate unaltered already in this meeting, there was consensus that the balance of risks to the central prospective inflation path would still justify residual monetary easing. 
27. In such context, taking into account the inflation prospects relative to targets path, the Copom has unanimously decided to reduce the Selic rate to 8.75%p.a. without bias. Taking into account the fact that monetary policy easing implemented since January has lagged and cumulative effects over the economy, the committee evaluates, at the present moment, that this level of basic interest rates is consistent with a benign inflationary scenario, contributing to ensure the inflation convergence to targets path over the relevant time horizon, as well as to the non-inflationary recovery of economic activity. 
28. Under the inflation targeting regime, the Copom guides its decisions according to projected inflation, the analysis of several alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine the forward-looking dynamics for prices, and the balance of risks associated to the projections. After a long period of expansion, domestic demand started to exert contractionist influence over economic activity, despite the persistence of incentive factors, such as income growth. Additionally, it bears highlighting that inflation expectations for 2009, 2010 and 2011 remain in line with targets path. It is also noteworthy that global economic deceleration has generated downward pressures over wholesale industrial prices. Under such environment, monetary policy could be significantly eased since January without jeopardizing the inflation convergence to targets path. On the other hand, important monetary and fiscal stimuli were introduced in the economy over the last few months, and should contribute to the recovery of the economy, and consequently, to the reduction of the idleness margin of production factors. The stimuli effects should be closely monitored over time and are important in the context where future monetary policy decisions, which should ensure the materialization of the convergence to targets path over relevant horizons, will be taken. 