1. IPCA inflation increased to 0.41% in November up from 0.28% in October. As a consequence, in the year through November inflation reached 3.93%, decreasing 1.68 p.p. relative to the same period of the previous year. In the last twelve months, inflation increased to 4.22% in November up from 4.17% in October (5.90% in December 2008 and 6.39% in November 2008), remaining near the target. The deceleration of twelve-month consumer price trailing inflation in the first eleven months of the year mirrored the behavior of market prices, as regulated price inflation increased. Considering market prices, both prices of tradable and non-tradable goods cooled on a twelve-month trailing basis, showed deceleration, reaching 2.64% and 5.45%, respectively, in November, down from 6.99% and 7.10% in December 2008 (7.87% and 7.74% in November 2008). However, according to the same comparison basis, the prices of services, whose dynamics tends to show more persistence than that of the prices of goods, slightly increased to 6.42% in November up from 6.39% in December 2008 (6.48% in November 2008). Preliminary data for December point to consumer inflation below the level observed in November. In short, information available suggest that the inflationary acceleration cycle observed last year has been gradually overcome by a process led by the behavior of market prices, specially goods, while regulated price and services inflation continue to show more persistence. 
2. The three main underlying inflation measures calculated by the BCB increased between October and November. The core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices changed from 0.33% in October to 0.42% in November. Smoothed and non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation measures also accelerated, recording 0.37% and 0.36% in November, up from 0.31% and 0.28% in October, respectively. The twelve-month trailing inflation measures changed from 6.09%, 4.82% and 4.92% in December 2008 to 4.92%, 4.27% and 3.58% in November, for the core inflation by exclusion, smoothed and non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation, respectively. Moreover, it bears emphasizing that the behavior of the IPCA diffusion index reduced to 58.9% in November (compared to 64.6% in November 2008). 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) inflation changed from -0.04% in October to 0.07% in November. On a twelve-month trailing basis, the IGP-DI inflation remained at -1.76% in November (11.20%in November 2008). The slowdown of the IGP-DI has basically reflected the behavior of all its three components. Its main component, the Wholesale Price Index (IPA-DI), reached -4.64% in the last twelve months through November (12.88% in November 2008). On its turn, the Consumer Price Index-Brazil (IPC-Br) increased 4.23% through November (6.27% in November 2008) and the Civil Construction National Index (INCC) increased 3.32% (12.34% in November 2008). Regarding the IPA-DI, the inflationary deceleration, under this comparison basis, derives basically from the behavior of both agricultural and industrial prices. The agricultural IPA reached -3.26% (7.38% in November 2008), while wholesale industrial prices reached -5.14% (14.93% in November 2008). As mentioned in previous Copom Minutes, the Copom evaluates that the effects of wholesale prices over consumer price inflation will depend on current and prospective demand conditions and price-setters’ expectations for the future inflation path. 
4. On a three-month moving average basis, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, industrial output increased 1.4% in August and accelerated to 1.8% in September and October. Still considering the seasonally adjusted series, industrial output increased by 1.8% in September and 2.2% in October, month-on-month, the tenth consecutive month of expansion. On a year-over-year basis, industrial output retreated by 7.2% in August, 7.6% in September and 3.2% in October. The analysis of the behavior of IBGE industrial output series, and its components, suggests that production reached its trough in December-January, and has been followed by gradual recovery. However, industrial activity recovery continues to be influenced by the international outlook, by business and households’ expectations, as well as by the developments of domestic financial conditions, supported by traditional sources of credit, besides the recovery of capital markets and the performance of financial public institutions. 
5. Among the use categories, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, in October, it bears highlighting the durable consumer goods production, strongly influenced by the automotive sector and by capital goods, both of them with a growth rate of 5.9%. Regarding the other use categories, intermediate goods production increased 1.2%, whilst non-durable and semi-durable consumer goods production increased 1.3%. The recovery, at the margin, in the dynamism of industrial production, led by production of durable goods, although more widespread than before, reflects, to a great extension, tax exemption measures and also some easing in credit conditions. The future behavior of industrial production recovery, which should not be uniform over time, will depend on these factors, as well as on the evolution of consumer and businessmen confidence, counterbalancing the still emerging recovery of external demand. 
6. Labor market has behaved more favorably, with resilient aspects prevailing over signs of loss of strength. The unemployment rate in the six metropolitan regions covered by the IBGE Monthly Labor Survey (PME) changed from 8.1% in August to 7.7% in September and to 7.5% in October (also 7.5% in October 2008). According to the seasonally adjusted series, the unemployment rate remained unchanged at 7.8 %, the same level reached in September. Average real earnings increased by 3.2% in October, in year-over-year terms. Employment, on its turn, retreated by 0.3% in October, according to the same comparison basis. As a consequence, real payroll reached 2.9% over October 2008, continuing to constitute a key driver for domestic demand growth. Still regarding the labor market, data from the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) indicate that the generation of formal employment has continued to record significant recovery. In October, 231 thousand jobs were created (252.6 thousand in September), representing the best result in the series for the month. The manufacturing industry showed positive balance of 74.6 thousand jobs, the seventh consecutive month of expansion and the best result of the series for the month. Similarly, the commerce sector continued the recovery trajectory initiated in April, with the positive result of 68.5 thousand jobs, the best result for the month. Also, the civil construction sector, the most dynamic one with a 5.8% cumulative growth in 2009, and the services sector continued hiring workers this month: 26.2 and 69.6 thousand jobs, respectively. Also in the services sector, the creation of jobs in October was the best result for the month in the series. The agricultural and livestock sector, on its turn, lost 11.6 thousand jobs, following the seasonal pattern. 
7. According to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, expanded retail sales increased by 4.7% in August and 3.0% in September. On a year-over-year basis, the indicator increased by 9.1% in September, growing by 4.4% in the year. The three-month moving average of expanded retail sales reached 0.4% in September, according to seasonally adjusted data, after recording 1.6% in August. On a month-on-month basis, according to seasonally adjusted data, it bears emphasizing the expansion in the sales of “vehicles, motorcycles, parts and pieces” (9.1%) and “office material and equipment” (8.8%). The negative key drivers were “building material” (1.5%) and “pharmaceutical and medical products” (-1.1%). In the year, cumulative growth was more significant in “office material and equipment” (11.9%) and “pharmaceutical and medical products” (11.9%). Since the beginning of the year, expanded retail sales data have evidenced recovery, mainly influenced by the increase in the sales of durable, in response to sector incentives granted by the government and to the improvement in the access to credit supply. For the next quarters, the retail sales trajectory will continue to be sustained by fiscal transfers, as well as by real payroll growth, whose evolution should be favored by the inflation behavior, but it will also be affected by the recovery in the access to credit supply, influenced by the lagged effects of monetary policy and by the evolution of consumer confidence. 
8. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry, calculated by FGV, reached 82.9% in November (82.5% in the previous month and 77.9% at the level observed in February- March), getting closer to the average observed in the last five years. The series seasonally adjusted by CNI changed from 80.6% to 80.8%, between September and October. Considering the monthly series without seasonal adjustment, the FGV calculated Nuci reached 84.5% in November, 0.7 p.p. below the level registered in the same month of 2008. This small reduction in the Nuci in November, according to the year-over-year comparison, is also observed in the production of intermediate goods (1 p.p.), while there is stability in construction inputs (0p.p.) and an increase of 1.1 p.p. in consumer goods – the expansion more intense of idleness is restricted to capital goods sector (8 p.p.). The reduction on the Nuci, according to the same comparison basis, results from a combination between the maturity of investment projects and accommodation of economic activity, but more recent data suggest that idle margin has been reducing. Data regarding the absorption of capital goods show retraction compared to the same periods of 2008 and expressive expansion at the margin. The absorption of capital goods data increased 12.6% in October (after a 6.1% increase in September), a 13.8% increase in the quarter ended in October, compared to the quarter ended in July, according to seasonally adjusted data, and a decrease of 6.5% in year-over-year terms, according to observed data. On its turn, the production of construction inputs increased by 0.5% at the margin in October (1.7% increase in the quarter), after a 1% increase in September, accumulating a 9.3% fall in the year. In short, evidences suggest that the utilization rates have been increasing the last months, showing a reduction in the idle margin of the industry, accompanied by the resume of investments. As stressed in previous Copom Minutes, the inflation trajectory is closely linked to current and prospective developments related to the expansion of supply of goods and services to adequately meet demand conditions. 
9. The twelve-month cumulative trade balance reduced at the margin, reaching a surplus of US$26.5 billion in October, and decreasing to US$25.5 billion in November. This total resulted from US$152.4 billion in exports and US$126.8 billion in imports, equivalent to -23.2% and -26.3% changes, respectively, year-over-year. The greater dynamism of domestic demand relative to the external demand contributes to the recent narrowing of trade surplus. The reduction in remittances of profits and dividends, on its turn, has contributed to limit the twelve-month trailing current account deficit, which reached US$28.2 billion in December 2008, decreasing to US$18.9 billion in October, equivalent to 1.3% of GDP. On its turn, foreign direct investment reached US$29.5 billion in the twelve months through October, equivalent to 2.1% of GDP. 
10. The period since the last Copom meeting was marked by the continuity of stress reduction in international financial markets, despite not in a monotonic way. The unprecedented actions taken by the authorities in mature economies, using a wide range of instruments, have continued to moderate the perception of systemic risk, in an environment of strong liquidity expansion. Under these conditions the signs of reduction in risk aversion continue, as evidenced by the behavior of international equity markets, although this process remains subject to reversals. The trend of reduction of risk aversion and of the scarcity of capital flows, as well as some concern among investors about the fiscal situation in the US, continued to encourage the recovery of currencies, both from emerging and mature economies, against the US dollar, yet in a more modest and heterogeneous terms in relation to the movement observed in previous months. 
11. Regarding the global macroeconomic scenario, contraction trends prevail over inflationary pressures in 2009, but recovery of economic activity seems to have been consolidating. The current predominant view points to the contraction of global economic activity in 2009, followed by recovery in 2010. The consensual projections point to a retraction of activity in the US, Europe and Japan (G3), which would not be totally offset by the economic dynamism of some emerging economies, especially in Asia. However, there are evidences of gradual recovery in the economic activity, but still subject to reversals, particularly due to the weakness in the labor market and economic activity in G3. On the other hand, the risks that the problems of the international financial system may be aggravated by the cyclical deterioration of the credit quality, which could contain the distension of financial conditions, and consequently, difficulty the consolidation of recovery, persist, but seem to be slowing. Therefore, the minimal points of inflation in mature economies seem to have been exceeded, despite the persistence, on a twelve-month trailing basis, of the disinflation process in several emerging economies. In this context, after a period of aggressive monetary policy easing, in a significant number of countries, monetary policy seems to have begun a phase of stability, whereas the increase in public sector debt imposes limits on the scope of any additional fiscal stimuli. 
12. Oil spot prices have not shown a clear trend since the last Copom meeting. Future markets did not show a consistent trend as well. Uncertainty concerning these quotations remains high, as the prospective scenario depends on the evolution of demand, in the context of global economic recovery, on the prospects for the evolution of global supply, subject to the pace of investment maturation in the sector, in addition to the geopolitical issues that affect the price of this commodity. Nonetheless, despite the high uncertainty inherent to the projections regarding the trajectory of oil prices, the main scenario adopted by the Copom assumes unchanged domestic gasoline prices in 2010. However, it bears highlighting that, regardless the behavior of domestic gasoline prices, the evolution of international oil prices can affect domestic prices through productive chains, such as the petrochemical, as well as through the potential effect over inflation expectations. It bears emphasizing that the behavior of agricultural commodity prices, which have particularly important impact in the evolution of food costs, such as wheat, soybeans and corn, increased since the last Copom meeting, as well as metallic industrial commodities, such as aluminum and copper. 
13. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations was based in the following assumptions: 
a) the projected adjustments for gasoline prices for 2009, increased from 0% in the October meeting, increased to 1.9%, while the projection for bottled gas prices rose from 11.2% to 13.4% in the same period. For 2010, there are no projected changes for gasoline and bottle gas prices, 
b) regarding the projected adjustment for fixed telephone and electricity prices for 2009, the former increased to 0.9% from 0.3%, percentage considered in the October meeting, while the latter moved from 4.8% to 5.2%. The projected adjustments for fixed telephone and electricity prices for 2010 are 1.6% and 3.3%, respectively, 
c) the projection for regulated prices inflation for 2009, based on individual items, was kept unchanged at 4.5%. For 2010, the projection is kept at 4.0%, as considered in the October meeting. This set of prices, according to data released by the IBGE, corresponded to 29.64% of the total November IPCA, 
d) the projection for regulated prices inflation for 2011 is 4.0%. Such projection is based on the endogenous determination model for regulated prices, which computes, among other factors, seasonal components, foreign exchange rate changes, market prices inflation and the IGP (General Price Index) variation, and 
e) the projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, based on the 360-day swap rates, on the benchmark scenario, estimates 99bps, 37 bps and 35 bps spreads in the fourth quarters of 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. 
14. Regarding fiscal policy, projections assume the achievement of a public sector primary surplus target of 2.5% of GDP in 2009 and 3.3% in 2010, in both cases adjusted by the possibility of reduction by up to 0.94 p.p. and 0.68 p.p., respectively, due to the implementation of the projects linked to the Growth Acceleration Program (PAC). Moreover, it is considered that the primary surplus in 2011 would return without adjusts to the level of 3.3% of GDP. The additional assumptions considered in the previous meeting remained unchanged. 
15. Since the last Copom meeting, the median of the expectations compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations Group (Gerin) for the 2009 IPCA slightly decreased, moving from 4.30% to 4.26%. For 2010, the median of inflation expectations increased to 4.48%, up from 4.41%, whereas it its 4.50% for 2011. 
16. The benchmark scenario assumes the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$1.70/US$1.00 and the Selic rate at 8.75% p.a. during the forecast period. In this scenario the projection for 2009 inflation increased relative to the figure considered in the October Copom meeting, and lies around the 4.5% target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). According to the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin on the eve of the Copom meeting - IPCA inflation forecast for 2009 increased as well, standing around the inflation midpoint target. For 2010, under the benchmark scenario, the projection increased relative to the figure considered in the October meeting, but remains close to the midpoint target, whereas the projection under the market scenario remains stable. 
17. The Copom evaluates that the monetary policy should contribute to the consolidation of a favorable longer-term macroeconomic environment. The risk aversion and the liquidity conditions prevailing in international markets continue to show a normalization trend at the margin. In fact, since the last Copom meeting, signs of global risk aversion reduction have continued to accumulate, despite still subject to reversion, with impacts over both Brazilian asset prices, as well as over selected commodities, which had also been influencing domestic financial conditions. However, it bears emphasizing that the trajectory of price indices still evidences external inflationary pressures contained. Consequently, the impact of the international scenario over the domestic inflation path continues to be, up to now, predominantly benign. On its turn, the possible consolidation of the world economy recovery might impact, although in a heterogeneous fashion, the global inflationary dynamics. On the top of this, it should be added the uncertainty generated by the effects of the unprecedented liquidity expansion on mature economies, over the price behavior of both assets and commodities. The Copom emphasizes that the main challenge of monetary policy in such context is to ensure that the favorable results obtained over the last years are preserved.
18. The Copom evaluates that the probability that initially localized pressures impose risks to the inflationary trajectory remains limited. The moderation of domestic demand pressures over the market of factors, at least in the short run, should contribute to contain the risk of pass-through of possible upward pressures over consumer prices stemming from wholesale prices (which, incidentally, returned to deflation in recent months). The Committee understands that the materialization of such pass-through, as well as the generalization of pressures, initially localized over the consumer prices, still depends critically on economic agents’ inflation expectations. Incidentally, inflation expectations for 2010 and 2011 remain in line with the targets path and continue to be closely monitored. Additionally, it is worth noticing that the domestic demand behavior tends to exert contained pressure over non-tradable items, such as services, over the upcoming quarters. Nonetheless, the Committee reaffirms that it will conduct its actions in order to ensure that the gains on inflation control obtained in recent years become permanent. 
19. The Copom emphasizes, once more, that there are important time lags between the implementation of monetary policy and its effects on both economic activity and inflation. Therefore, the assessment of alternative options for monetary policy should necessarily focus on the forward-looking inflation scenario and its risks, instead of current inflation figures. Such considerations become even more relevant in periods surrounded by heightened uncertainty. The Committee reaffirms that specific asset price movements are only relevant for monetary policy if they impact the forward-looking inflationary path. 
20. Prospects for the evolution of domestic economic activity have continued to improve since the last Copom meeting, as evidenced by data on commerce activity, industry and labor market. Signs of credit recovery continue to accumulate, in particular regarding loans to individuals. Also for consumer and businessmen confidence there are consistent signs of recovery. Under such circumstances, the rhythm of economic activity resumption strongly depends on real payroll expansion, on the effects of fiscal stimulus measures and on incremental governmental transfers, which will occur in the upcoming months. It should also benefit from the easing of financial conditions, favored by the policy of official banks, among other factors. In short, the most recent data on domestic economic activity seem to reinforce the evaluation mentioned in previous Copom meetings minutes that the contractionist effects of the international financial crisis over the domestic economy dynamism and, consequently, over the context on which the monetary policy operates, could become persistent, but would not be permanent. These considerations become even more relevant considering the fact that the current monetary policy decision will have concentrated impacts in 2010. 
21. The Copom understands that the risks for the consolidation of a benign inflationary scenario derive, in the short term, from price adjustment mechanisms that contribute to lengthen inflationary pressures observed in the past, as evidenced by the behavior of services prices and certain regulated items since the beginning of 2009, as well as from a possible hike in commodities prices. In the medium term, the risk stems from cumulative and lagged effects of the financial conditions easing and from the fiscal stimulus over the evolution of domestic demand, taking into account the dynamics of consumption and investment, in a context of recovery of production factors utilization. The balance of such influences over the inflationary prospective trajectory will be crucial to the assessment of the various alternatives available for the monetary policy stance. 
22. International evidence, as well as the Brazilian experience, indicates that high inflation rates lead to the increase of risk premium, for both private and public funding, to the shortening of planning horizons and, consequently, to lower potential economic growth, besides having regressive effects over income distribution. Therefore, the Copom strategy aims to ensure that that the convergence of inflation towards the target path observed in 2009 continues to be registered in 2010 and 2011. Such strategy, which results have been evidenced throughout time, takes into account the time lags in the transmission mechanisms and is the most adequate to deal with the uncertainty inherent to the process of monetary policy formulation and implementation. 
23. The Copom evaluates that, in light of the idleness margin of the economy, evidenced by indicators of capacity utilization in industry and of the labor market, and the behavior of inflation expectations for relevant horizons, the materialization of a benign inflation scenario, in which the IPCA would continue to evolve according to the target path, has remained favorable. By the way, such evolution of the forward-looking scenario continues to be reflected on the inflation projections considered by the Committee. Under such circumstances, in order to preserve the improvement of the prospective inflationary path, under a macroeconomic scenario with significant uncertainty, the Copom evaluates that monetary policy should maintain a cautious stance, aiming to assure the maintenance of inflation convergence to the targets path. 
24. The Committee understands that the accommodation of demand, motivated by the tightening of financial conditions and by deterioration of the agents’ confidence, as well as by the global economic activity contraction, has been overcome, although significant idleness margin of production factors still persists, which should not be rapidly eliminated in a basic scenario of gradual recovery of economic activity. The Copom also highlights that there are uncertainties around such basic scenario, which should be clarified over the upcoming months, with both positive and negative biases over the pace of economic activity recovery. Anyhow, under such scenario of gradual recovery, which has been corroborated by current available data, inflationary pressures should remain restrained. On the other hand, the Committee notices that the significant monetary policy easing, implemented between January and July, will have cumulative effects over the economy, which will be evidenced with a time lag. 
25. The Committee understands that decisions regarding the evolution of the basic interest rate have to take into account the magnitude of the stimuli introduced into the economy, whose impacts on several economic indicators will be evident over time, in a context of a gradual and consistent recovery of production factors utilization. The Copom also understands that a more cautious stance will contribute to mitigate the risk of abrupt reversals of monetary policy in the future and, therefore, to the consistent recovery of the economy over the upcoming quarters. The Copom also evaluates that the preservation of benign inflationary prospects will require the behavior of the financial system and the economy under a new level of interest rates to be closely monitored over time. 
26. Regarding the inflation prospects compared to the targets path, the Copom has unanimously decided to maintain the Selic rate at 8.75% p.a. without bias. Taking into account, on the one hand, the monetary policy easing implemented since January and, on the other hand, the idleness margin of production factors, among other factors, the Committee evaluates that such level of basic interest rate is now consistent with a benign inflationary scenario, contributing to assure the maintenance of inflation in line with the targets path over the relevant horizon for the non-inflationary recovery of economic activity. 
27. Under the inflation targeting regime, the Copom guides its decisions according to projected inflation, the analysis of several alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine the forward-looking dynamics for prices, and the balance of risks associated to the projections. After a short period of contraction, domestic demand started to show signs of recovery, due to the stimulus factors effects, such as income growth. Additionally, it bears noticing that, evidencing the credibility achieved by the Copom on the implementation of the regime, inflation expectations for 2010 and 2011 remain in line with the targets path. It is also noteworthy that global economic deceleration has generated downward pressures over wholesale industrial prices. On its turn, important monetary, credit, and fiscal stimuli were introduced into the economy over the last quarters and should contribute to the activity recovery and, consequently, to the reduction of the idleness margin of production factors. Those stimuli effects should be closely monitored over time and are important in the context where future monetary policy decisions, which should ensure the materialization of the convergence of inflation to targets path over relevant horizons, will be taken. 