1. IPCA inflation decreased slightly to 0.37% in December, down from 0.41% in November. As a consequence, in the year inflation reached 4.31%, decreasing 1.59 p.p. relative to the previous year, remaining near the target. The deceleration of twelve-month consumer price trailing inflation in the year mirrored the behavior of market prices, as regulated price inflation increased. Considering market prices, both prices of tradable and non-tradable goods decelerated, reaching 2.62% and 5.53%, respectively, in 2009, down from 6.99% and 7.10% in 2008. However, according to the same comparison basis, the prices of services, whose dynamics tends to show more persistence than that of the prices of goods, slightly changed to 6.37% in 2009, down from 6.39% in 2008. Preliminary data for January point to consumer inflation above the level observed in December. In short, information available suggest that the inflationary acceleration cycle observed in 2008 was overcome by a process led by the behavior of market prices, specially goods, while regulated price and services inflation continues to show more persistence. 
2. The three main underlying inflation measures calculated by the BCB increased between November and December. The core inflation by exclusion changed from 0.37% in November to 0.46% in December. Smoothed trimmed means and double weight core inflation measures also accelerated, recording 0.41% and 0.47% in December, up from 0.37% and 0.40% in November, respectively. The twelve-month trailing inflation measures changed from 5.72%, 4.82% and 6.07% in 2008 to 4.73%, 4.35% and 4.74% in 2009, for the core inflation by exclusion, smoothed and double weight trimmed means core inflation, respectively. Note that all core measures grew, according to twelve-month trailing inflation, compared to local record lows observed in October and two of them are above the inflation target. Moreover, it bears emphasizing that the behavior of the IPCA diffusion index reduced to 60.2% in December 2009, compared to 61.7% in December 2008. 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) inflation changed from 0.07% in November to -0.11% in December. In 2009, the IGP-DI inflation reached -1.43% (9.10% in 2008). The slowdown of the IGP-DI reflected the behavior of all its three components. Its main component, the Wholesale Price Index (IPA-DI), reached -4.08% in 2009 (9.80% in 2008). On its turn, the Consumer Price Index-Brazil (IPC-Br) increased 3.95% (6.07% in 2008) and the Civil Construction National Index (INCC) increased 3.25% (11.87% in 2008). Regarding the IPA-DI, the inflationary deceleration, under this comparison basis, derives from the behavior of both agricultural and industrial prices. The agricultural IPA reached -3.16% (1.64% in 2008), while wholesale industrial prices reached -4.43% (12.96% in 2008). As mentioned in previous Copom Minutes, the Copom evaluates that the effects of wholesale prices over consumer price inflation will depend on current and prospective demand conditions and price-setters’ expectations for the future inflation path. 
4. The Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE) released Q3 2009 GDP data, as well as a review of previous data, which showed a 1.2% contraction in activity, year-over-year. From the aggregate demand side, expansion was led by household consumption and public administration consumption, which increased 3.9% and 1.6%, respectively, year-over-year. Gross fixed capital formation, exports and imports contracted 12.5%, 10.1% and 15.8%, respectively, according to the same comparison basis. The contribution of domestic absorption to output growth was -2.0 p.p. in the third quarter of 2009, year-over-year, overweighing the 0.8 p.p. positive contribution of the external sector. From the aggregate supply side, still according to the year-over-year basis, the services sector performed positively, with a 2.1% growth, year-over-year, while all the other sectors contracted. The GDP deflator measured by market prices, according to the same comparison basis, changed from 7.4% in the fourth quarter of 2008 to 5.7% in the first quarter of 2009, 5.4% in the first half of 2009 and 4.7% in the first nine months of 2009. 
5. On a three-month moving average basis, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, industrial output decreased from 1.8% in September and October to 1.2% in November. Still considering the seasonally adjusted series, industrial output decreased by 0.2% in November, month-on-month, after ten consecutive months of expansion. On a year-over-year basis, industrial output increased 5.1%, after retreating by 3.1% in October. The analysis of the behavior of IBGE industrial output series, and its components, suggests that production reached its through in December 2008 and January 2009, and has been followed by gradual recovery, which continues to be influenced by the international outlook, by business and households’ expectations, as well as by the developments of domestic financial conditions, supported by traditional sources of credit, besides the recovery of capital markets and the performance of public financial institutions. 
6. Among the use categories, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, in November, it bears highlighting the production of capital and intermediate goods, with 6.1% and 2.1% growth, respectively. Durable consumer goods production, strongly influenced by the automotive sector, decreased 4.8%, while non-durable and semi-durable consumer goods production declined 0.6%. The recovery in the dynamism of industrial production, despite initially led by production of durable goods, has become more widespread than before, reflecting, to great extension, tax exemption measures, as well as also the easing in financial conditions. The future behavior of industrial production, which should not be uniform over time, will depend on these factors, as well as on the evolution of consumer and businessmen confidence, but should be a source of resilience, counterbalancing the recovery of external demand. 
7. Labor market has behaved more favorably, with benign aspects prevailing over signs of loss of strength. The unemployment rate in the six metropolitan regions covered by the IBGE Monthly Labor Survey (PME) changed from 7.5% in October to 7.4% in November (7.6% in November 2008). According to the seasonally adjusted series, the unemployment rate reached 7.7%, down from 7.8% in the previous month. Average real earnings remained stable for the second consecutive month. Employment, on its turn, increased 0.7% in November, after retreating by 0.3% in October, year-over-year. As a consequence, real payroll reached 2.9% over November 2008, continuing to constitute a key driver for domestic demand growth. Still regarding the labor market, data from the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) indicate that the formal employment has continued to recover in the second half of 2009, despite the seasonal job cuts in December. Therefore, 995 thousand jobs were created in 2009 (1,452 thousand in 2008). The manufacturing industry showed positive balance of 10.9 thousand jobs. The most dynamic sectors were services, with the creation of 500.2 thousand jobs (a 3.9% increase compared to 2008), commerce (297.2 thousand jobs, a 3.9% increase over the previous year) and civil construction (177.2 thousand jobs, a 6.2%increase), while the agricultural and livestock sector lost 13.6 thousand jobs. 
8. According to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, expanded retail sales increased by 0.6% in November, after decreasing by 2.6% in October. On a year-over-year basis, the indicator increased 16.4% in November, growing by 6.0% in the year. The three-month moving average of expanded retail sales reached 0.8% in November, according to seasonally adjusted data, after recording 1.7% in October. On a month-on-month basis, according to seasonally adjusted data, it bears emphasizing the expansion in the sales of “furniture and appliances” (5.9%) and “construction material” (2.7%). The negative key drivers were “other personal and domestic articles” (-1.9%) and “books, newspapers, magazines and stationary” (-1.1%). Since the beginning of 2009, expanded retail sales data have evidenced recovery, mainly influenced by the increase in the sales of durable goods, in response to sector incentives granted by the government and to the improvement in the access to credit supply. For the next quarters, the retail sales trajectory will continue to be sustained by fiscal transfers, as well as by real payroll growth, but it will also be affected by the recovery in the access to credit and by the evolution of consumer confidence. 
9. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry, calculated by FGV, without seasonal adjustment data, reached 84.2% in December (3.6 p.p above the level registered in the same month of 2008). The CNI series seasonally adjusted by the BCB changed from 81.0% to 81.2%, between October and November. Considering the monthly series with seasonal adjustment, the Nuci calculated by FGV reached 83.8% in December (82.9% in the previous month), above the average observed in the last five years. Similarly, the Nuci in the consumer goods and building material industries in December was above the average of the last five years, recording 3.5 p.p. and 1.1 p.p growth, respectively. The Nuci in the intermediate goods and capital goods industries grew 2.0 p.p. and 1.7 p.p., respectively, compared to the same average. The reduction of the idle capacity has been led by the expansion in economic activity, not totally offset by the maturity of investment projects. On its turn, data regarding the absorption of capital goods show recovery compared to the same periods of 2008 and significant expansion at the margin in November (the third consecutive month of expansion compared to the previous month). The absorption of capital goods increased 2.3% in November, according to seasonally adjusted data, a 12.3% increase in year-over-year terms, but decreased 13.9% in the year, according to observed data. On its turn, the production of construction inputs increased by 4.2% at the margin in November, after a 1.2% increase in October and a 4.7% increase in year-over-year terms, accumulating a 8% fall in the year, also according to observed data. In short, evidences suggest that the utilization rates have been increasing in the last months, showing important reduction in the idle margin of the industry, followed by the recovery of investments. As stressed in previous Copom Minutes, the inflation trajectory is closely linked to current and prospective developments related to the expansion of supply of goods and services to adequately meet demand conditions. 
10. The twelve-month cumulative trade balance showed stability at the margin, reaching a US$25.5 billion surplus in November, and decreasing to US$25.3 billion in December. This total resulted from US$153.0 billion in exports and US$127.6 billion in imports, equivalent to -22.7% and -26.2% changes, respectively, year-over-year. The greater dynamism of domestic demand relative to the external demand contributes to the narrowing of trade surplus. The reduction in remittances of profits and dividends, despite the behavior observed at the margin, has contributed to limit the twelve-month trailing current account deficit, which reached US$28.2 billion in December 2008, decreasing to US$24.3 billion in 2009, equivalent to 1.6% of GDP. On its turn, foreign direct investment reached US$25.9 billion in 2009, equivalent to 1.7% of GDP.
11. The period since the last Copom meeting was initially marked by the continuity of the normalization process in international financial markets, and, more recently, by some increase in the volatility of asset prices, although the perception of systemic risk continues limited. These developments can be attributed to increased regulatory uncertainty and fiscal deterioration in some mature economies, as well as the beginning of the reversal of the strong liquidity expansion occurred in 2009 in emerging economies. Under these conditions, there was moderation in demand for risky assets, as evidenced by the behavior of international financial markets. Thus, the US dollar strengthened against other currencies, especially those who had experienced more intense appreciation in previous months. 
12. Regarding the global macroeconomic scenario, contraction trends prevailed over inflationary pressures in 2009, but recovery of economic activity seems to have been consolidating. The current predominant view points to the recovery in 2010 and some acceleration in 2011, in a process where the US, Europe and Japan (G3) would recover some dynamism, but which would continue to be led by emerging economies, especially from Asia. However, uncertainty regarding the sustainability of the expansion of consumption in mature economies still remains, in a scenario of withdrawal of economic policy stimuli and modest prospects for credit expansion. On the other hand, in many emerging economies, economic activity seems to have embarked on a consistent path of recovery, showing, in some cases, evidence of heat in the markets of goods, services, production factors and assets. Therefore, the inflation record lows in mature economies and major emerging economies have been exceeded. In this context, after a period of aggressive monetary policy easing, in several countries, monetary policy began a phase of stability, whereas those economies that were less impacted by the crisis and recover more quickly and intensely show a trend of adoption of more restrictive monetary policy stance.
13. Oil spot prices have retreated since the last Copom meeting. Future markets have retreated as well. Uncertainty concerning these quotations remains high, as the prospective scenario depends on the evolution of demand, in a context of global economic recovery, on the prospects for the evolution of global supply, subject to the pace of investment maturation in the sector, in addition to the geopolitical issues that affect the price of this commodity. Nonetheless, despite the high uncertainty inherent to the projections regarding the trajectory of oil prices, the main scenario adopted by the Copom assumes unchanged domestic gasoline prices in 2010. However, it bears highlighting that, regardless the behavior of domestic gasoline prices, the evolution of international oil prices can eventually affect domestic prices through productive chains, such as the petrochemical, as well as through the potential effect over inflation expectations. It bears emphasizing that agricultural commodity prices, which have particularly important impact on the evolution of food costs, such as wheat, soybeans and corn, have decreased since the last Copom meeting, while industrial commodities prices, such as aluminum, copper and nickel, have increased. 
14. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations was based in the following assumptions: 
a) the projected adjustments for gasoline and bottle gas prices for 2010 were kept unchanged at 0%, 
b) the projected adjustments for fixed telephone and electricity prices for 2010 were kept unchanged at 1.6% and 3.3%, respectively, 
c) the projection for regulated prices inflation for 2010, based on individual items, was kept unchanged at 4.0%. This set of prices, according to data released by the IBGE, corresponded to 29.64% of the total December IPCA, 
d) the projection for regulated prices inflation for 2011 increased from 4.0% to 4.1%, on the benchmark scenario. Such projection is based on the endogenous determination model for regulated prices, which computes, among other factors, seasonal components, foreign exchange rate changes, market prices inflation and the IGP (General Price Index) change, and 
e) the projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, based on the 360-day swap rates, on the benchmark scenario, estimates 30 bps and 49 bps spreads in the fourth quarters of 2010 and 2011, respectively. 
15. Regarding fiscal policy, projections assume the achievement of a public sector primary surplus target of 3.3% of GDP in 2010. This percentage can be adjusted by the possibility of reduction by up to 1.12 p.p., due to the implementation of the projects linked to the Growth Acceleration Program (PAC), of which 0.44 p.p. refer to amounts to be paid from 2009. Moreover, it is expected that the primary surplus in 2011 would return, without adjustments, to the level of 3.3% of GDP. The additional assumptions considered in the previous meeting remained unchanged. 
16. Since the last Copom meeting, the median of the expectations compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations Group (Gerin) for the 2010 IPCA increased from 4.48% to 4.60%. For 2011, the median of inflation expectations was kept unchanged at 4.50%. 
17. The benchmark scenario assumes the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$1.80/US$1.00 and the Selic rate at 8.75% p.a. during the forecast period. Under this scenario, the projection for the 2010 inflation increased relative to the figure considered in the December Copom meeting, and lies around the 4.50% target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). According to the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin on the eve of the Copom meeting - IPCA inflation forecast for 2010 slightly decreased, standing around the inflation midpoint target. For 2011, under the benchmark scenario, the projection remained stable relative to the figure considered in the December Copom meeting, and therefore, around the inflation midpoint target. The projection under the market scenario decreased and stands below the midpoint target. 
18. The Copom evaluates that the monetary policy should contribute to the consolidation of a favorable longer-term macroeconomic environment. In international markets, risk aversion has shown some increase since the last Copom meeting, despite the persistence of abundant liquidity. Under this environment, both Brazilian asset prices, which had also been favoring the easing of domestic financial conditions, as well as the prices of some selected commodities, showed decline. However, it bears emphasizing that the prospects for foreign funding of Brazilian economy remain favorable. On the other hand, the trajectory of producer price indices evidence the resumption, despite still incipient, of external inflationary pressures. Consequently, the benign impact of the international scenario over the domestic inflation path could come to an end, despite the persistence of significant uncertainty regarding the behavior of asset and commodities prices in the context of gradual normalization of international financial conditions. The Copom emphasizes that the main challenge of monetary policy in such context is to ensure that the favorable results obtained over the last years are preserved. 
19. The Copom believes that, if the prospect of intensification of demand pressures over the domestic market of factors is confirmed, the probability that initially located inflationary episodes pose risks to the inflation trajectory could be rising. In this context, the risk of pass-through of possible wholesale price upward pressures to consumer prices would increase. The Committee judges that the materialization of this pass-through, as well as the spread of initially localized pressures over consumer prices, continues to depend critically on the economic agents' expectations for inflation. By the way, the Committee continues to carefully monitor the behavior of inflation expectations, which have risen for the intermediate section of the forecast period since the last meeting. Additionally, it should be noted that the behavior of domestic demand could exert some pressure over the prices of non-tradable items, such as services, in the upcoming quarters. In any event, the Committee reaffirms that it will continue to conduct its actions to ensure that the gains obtained in inflation control in recent years become permanent. 
20. The Copom considers important to emphasize, once more, that there are important time lags between the implementation of monetary policy and its effects on both economic activity and inflation. Therefore, the assessment of alternative options for monetary policy should necessarily focus on the forward-looking inflationary scenario and its risks, instead of current inflation figures. The Committee reaffirms that specific asset price movements are only relevant for monetary policy if they impact the forward-looking inflationary path. 
21. Prospects for the evolution of domestic economic activity remain favorable, as evidenced by data on trade, manufacturing capacity utilization and the labor market, and by signs of continued expansion of credit supply, both for individuals and corporate. Consumer and business confidence also show consistent signs of recovery. Under these circumstances, the pace of activity depends significantly upon the evolution of real earnings, the effects of fiscal stimulus measures and the increments of governmental transfers that will occur in the upcoming months. The dynamism of activity should also be benefited by the easing of financial conditions, favored, among other factors, by the policies of official banks. In short, the most recent data on domestic economic activity seem to reinforce the assessment mentioned in previous Copom meeting minutes that the contraction effects of the international financial crisis over the domestic economy dynamism and, consequently, over the context on which the monetary policy operates, could become persistent, but would not be permanent. These considerations become even more relevant considering the fact that the current monetary policy decision will have more impacts from the middle of 2010 on. 
22. The Copom believes that the main risks to the consolidation of a benign inflationary scenario derive, regarding the external outlook, from a possible rise in commodity prices and, regarding the domestic scenario, from the cumulative and lagged effects of the financial condition easing and the fiscal and credit impulse over the evolution of domestic demand, taking into account the dynamics of consumption and investment, in the context of the reduction in the idleness margin in the use of production factors. The balance of these influences on the future trajectory of inflation will be crucial for the assessment of the different monetary policy stances. 
23. International evidence, as well as the Brazilian experience, indicates that high inflation rates lead to the increase of risk premium, for both private and public funding, to the shortening of planning horizons and, consequently, to lower potential economic growth, besides having regressive effects over income distribution. Therefore, the Copom strategy aims to ensure that the convergence of inflation towards the targets path observed in 2009 continues to be registered in 2010 and 2011. Such strategy, whose results have been evidenced throughout time, takes into account the time lags in the transmission mechanisms and is the most adequate to deal with the uncertainty inherent to the process of monetary policy formulation and implementation. 
24. The Committee considers that the accommodation of demand, driven by the tightening of financial conditions and the deterioration of the agents’ confidence, as well as by the contraction of the global economy, shows persistent signs of having been overcome, despite the persistence of uncertainty, which should be resolved over time, towards positive and negative outlooks for the pace of economic recovery. Anyway, under this scenario of recovery, which is supported by the data available so far, monetary policy must ensure inflationary pressures remain contained. 
25. In short, the Committee judges that, given the signs of recovery in domestic demand, resulting in the reduction in the idleness margin of the production factors, as evidenced by indicators of manufacturing capacity utilization and labor market, and by the recent behavior of inflation expectations, the risks to the achievement of a benign inflationary scenario, in which inflation would remain consistent with the inflation targets, can increase. Under this environment, monetary policy should remain especially vigilant in order to avoid that the greater uncertainty detected in shorter horizons spread to longer horizons. 
26. Under this context, regarding the macroeconomic outlook and the inflation prospects, the Copom has unanimously decided to maintain the Selic rate at 8.75% p.a., without bias. The Committee will monitor the evolution of the macroeconomic scenario until its next meeting, to define the next steps in its monetary policy strategy. 
27. Under the inflation targeting regime, the Copom guides its decisions according to projected inflation, the analysis of several alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine the forward-looking dynamics for prices, and the balance of risks associated to the projections. After a brief contraction, domestic demand has recovered, largely thanks to the effects of stimulus factors, such as income growth and credit resumption. On its turn, important fiscal and credit incentives have been provided to the economy in recent quarters, and should contribute to consolidating the resumption of activity and hence, to reduce the residual idleness margin of productive factors. The effects of these stimuli should be carefully monitored over time and will be an important part of the context in which future decisions on monetary policy, which must ensure the maintenance of inflation convergence to the targets path in 2010 and 2011, will be taken. 
28. In the event that the risk profile deteriorates so that it implies changes to the inflation prospective scenario considered this time by the Committee, the monetary policy strategy will promptly be adapted to the circumstances. 