1. IPCA inflation, after recording 0.45% and 0.75% in September and October, respectively, increased again in November, to 0.83%. As a consequence, inflation accumulated in the first eleven months of 2010 reached 5.25%, 1.32 p.p. above the one observed in the same period of 2009. Inflation increase in 2010 reflects the behavior of market prices, which increased by 6.26% in the year through November and contributed 4.4 p.p. of the 5.25% recorded in the year. In fact, regulated prices decelerated year-over-year and total 2.86% in the year through November, down from 4.21% in the same period of last year, contributing only 0.8 p.p. to cumulative inflation in the year through November. Regarding market prices, it bears emphasizing that tradable goods inflation reached 5.87% in the year through November, while the non-tradable goods inflation reached 6.61%. The change in the prices of services, whose dynamics tends to show more persistence than that of the prices of goods, shows some stability, and reached 6.99% in the year through November. The acceleration in prices in September, October and November was greatly due to the elevation in the prices of food and beverages. 
2. The deviations in food prices trajectory have continued to perform relevant role in the behavior of 2010 headline inflation. In fact, in the first four-month period, the IPCA showed sharp rise, when the prices of food and beverages increased 5.19%, while in the second four-month period there was relative stability, when the prices of food and beverages retreated 1.61%. The monthly IPCA recorded consecutive price increases in the first three months of the last four-month period, with food and beverages prices increasing by 5.28%. It bears emphasizing that twelve-month trailing household food price inflation changed from 6.67%, in April 2010, to 2.29%, in August, and increased again, to 9.39%, in November, at the same time, according to the same comparison basis, IPCA inflation reached 5.26%, 4.49% and 5.64%, respectively. The recent elevation in food price inflation has partially mirrored domestic and external supply shocks, heightened by the high liquidity environment in international financial markets. 
3. In line with the evolution of headline inflation, the three main underlying inflation measures calculated by the BCB increased between September and November. The smoothed trimmed means core inflation increased from 0.43% in September to 0.55% in October and 0.56% in November. In the same period, the double weight core inflation increased from 0.39% to 0.58% and 0.62%, and the core inflation by exclusion rose from 0.37% to 0.44% and 0.52%. In the year through November, the smoothed trimmed means core inflation, double weight core inflation and the core inflation by exclusion increased 5.52%, 5.32% and 5.30%, respectively. The IPCA diffusion index, which had already reached 62.5% in September, increased again to 64.8% in October and to 67.2% in November. 
4. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) inflation recorded 1.03% in October, close to the change observed in September (1.10%). In the year through October, the IGP-DI inflation reached 9.16%, above the level recorded in the same period of 2009 (-1.40%). According to the same comparison basis, inflation measured by its main component, the Wholesale Price Index (IPA-DI), rose 11.40%, reflecting the increases of 9.07% and 18.78%, respectively, in industrial and agricultural prices. The 2010 IPA-DI inflation change is, therefore, above the change recorded in the same period of 2009 (-3.77%). Inflation measured by the Consumer Price Index (IPC-DI), another component of the IGP-DI, increased 4.43% in the year through October, above the 3.41% recorded in the same period of 2009. Under the same criterion, inflation measured by the Civil Construction National Index (INCC), component with the lowest weight in the IGP-DI, increased 6.66%, also above the rate recorded in the same period of 2009 (2.85%). As emphasized in previous Copom Meeting Minutes, the Copom evaluates that the effects of wholesale prices over consumer price inflation will depend, among other factors, on the current and prospective demand conditions, the exposure of each sector to external and domestic competition, as well as on the price setters’ expectations for the future inflation path. 
5. The Index of Economic Activity of the BCB (IBC-Br) incorporates estimates for the monthly production of the three sectors of the economy, as well as for products taxes and, therefore, it constitutes an important coincident indicator of economic activity. After registering positive growth rates in all months of 2009 until April 2010, the IBC-Br, which had been showing stability, growing by 0.2% between May and August this year, resumed growth (0.7% in September), suggesting that the period of most intense cooling activity has finished. 
6. After strong retreat due to the 2008/2009 crisis, industrial activity recovered, but has shown some accommodation at levels similar to those observed in the pre-crisis period. According to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, industrial output grew by 0.4% in October, and 0.1% in September, month-on-month. The three-month moving average growth rate reached 0.1%, in the period between July and October, close to that registered in the June-September period (0.2%). Year-over-year, the production increased 2.1% in October 2010 and 6.6% in September. On a twelve-month trailing basis, industrial production expanded for the seventh consecutive time, by 11.8% in October, up from 11.2% in September. Compared to December 2008, a record low for industrial production level registered during the 2008/2009 crisis period, recovery up to October totaled 24.5%. This recovery has partially been supported by the growth of industrial activity financing by public financial institutions. 
7. Among the industry use categories, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, the most important driver in October, month-on-month, was durable goods production, which increased by 2.8%. Semi-durable and non-durable consumer goods production, intermediate goods production and capital goods production were negative, recording -0.1%, -0.1% and -0.2%, respectively. On a three-month moving average basis, only consumer goods production increased, reaching 0.2% (0.6% for durable goods production and 0.2% for semi- and non-durable consumer goods production). Capital goods production retreated 0.9%, while intermediate goods production reduced by 0.5%. It bears highlighting that, although capital goods production decreased at the margin, the expansion in the year through October reached 24.0%, year-over-year, the most remarkable expansion among the use categories. This evidences the robustness in capital goods investment, a relevant factor for economic recovery in the post-crisis period. 
8. The unemployment rate in the six metropolitan regions covered by the IBGE Monthly Labor Survey (PME) decreased from 6.2% in September to 6.1% in October, lower than the 7.5% observed in October 2009, according to observed data. After reaching 9.0% in March 2009, the observed rate not only retreated significantly until October, but reached a historical record low for the series begun in March 2002 (6.1%). Also according to the seasonally adjusted series, the rate in October reached a new record low for the series (6.3%). Employment, measured by the number of employed workers in the metropolitan regions, increased by 3.5% in September and 3.9% in October, year-over-year. Data from the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) indicate that formal employment continues to grow, although October data do not suggest acceleration. In October, 204.8 thousand jobs were created, compared to 231.0 thousand jobs registered in October 2009. In the year through October, 2.41 million jobs were created, a 107% expansion relative to the same period of 2009 and the best result for the period since the start of the series. The driver for employment in October and in 2010 was services, which contributed with 42% and 36% for job creation in the month and in the year, respectively. Real average earnings also reached a record high in October (0.3% month-on-month and 6.5% year-over-year). As a consequence, real payroll, considering the main earnings, expanded by 10.7% in October, year-over-year, continuing to constitute a key driver for the maintenance of domestic demand growth. 
9. According to the retail monthly survey from the IBGE, expanded retail sales increased 5.9% in September, 14.0% in August and 12.6% in July, year-over-year. According to the seasonally adjusted series, sales retreated by 0.9% in September, after growing in the four previous months. As a consequence, the average of sales increased 3.5% in the third quarter, quarter-over-quarter. Out of the ten sectors surveyed, four sectors performed positively month-on-month in September. The most important driver was “office material and equipment”, with 5.6% growth. In the next months the retail sales trajectory should continue to be benefited by governmental transfers, by real payroll growth, by credit expansion and by consumer confidence. 
10. Expanded retail sales performed positively in all months of the second four-month period of 2010, totaling 4.8%. On the other hand, in the same period, activity recorded 0.9% reduction, according to the industrial output index, and some stability, according to the IBC-Br. Therefore, industrial activity accommodation did not have a correspondence in retail sales, whose dynamism reflects both the evolution of non-durable consumer goods imports, with 8.1% increase in volume between the first and the second four-month period, according to data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, and the evolution of final products inventories, which, throughout the six first months of the year stood below companies’ forecasts, according to the industrial survey carried out by the National Industry Confederation (CNI). 
11. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry, calculated by FGV, without seasonal adjustment, reached 86.1% in November, down from 86.4% in October, standing close to the levels registered prior to the 2008/2009 crisis. According to the seasonally adjusted monthly series calculated by FGV, the Nuci reached 84.5% in November, down from 85.2% in the previous month. Among the four use categories, only intermediate goods industry had a retreating Nuci (0.5 p.p.), month-on-month, reaching 86.0%. On the other hand, the Nuci in capital goods industry increased by 1.2 p.p., reaching 84.8%. No monthly change was observed for the Nuci for the construction inputs industry and for the consumer goods industry in November. According to the CNI series seasonally adjusted by the BCB, the Nuci remained stable at 82.2% in October, after reaching 82.1% in September and 82.2% in August. The installed capacity utilization rates, despite at high levels, showed slight decline. The reduced idleness margin is the result of the recent economic activity expansion, still not totally offset by the maturity of investment projects. It bears noticing that the absorption of capital goods decreased 5.8% in October month-on-month, but increased 9.6% year-over-year. In the year through October, growth reached 29.4% year-over-year, evidencing deceleration in capital goods absorption. The production of construction inputs increased 0.8% month-on-month and 5.2% year-over-year, in October. On a twelve-month trailing basis, expansion totaled 12.2%. As stressed in previous Copom Minutes, the inflation trajectory is closely linked to current and prospective developments related to the expansion of supply of goods and services to adequately meet demand conditions. 
12. The twelve-month cumulative trade balance result totaled US$ 17.1 billion in November, US$8.3 billion below the observed in the same period last year. This result stemmed from US$195.5 billion in exports and US$178.4 billion in imports, equivalent to 28.3% and 40.5% changes, respectively, year-over-year. In fact, the greater dynamism of domestic demand relative to external demand is relevant for the reduction in the trade surplus. The behavior of remittances of profits and dividends, which also reflects the growth differential between the Brazilian economy and the economy in other countries, has been contributing to elevate the current account deficit, which reached US$48 billion in October, equivalent to 2.4% of GDP, up from US$47.3 billion in September. On its turn, foreign direct investment reached US$36.1 billion in the last twelve months through October, equivalent to 1.8% of GDP, resulting in a need of foreign funding equivalent to 0.6% of GDP. 
13. The global economy recovery continues to be led by a group of emerging countries, whose steady pace of economic expansion is anchored mainly by domestic demand and, in specific cases, by the export sector. Economic recovery has also continued in the US and Europe, despite at a more gradual pace than previously anticipated. The Euro Area, in particular, faces different situations, once persistent uncertainties regarding the solvency of some peripheral economies remain, while the pace of expansion continues quite strong in Germany. Business confidence reached, in November, a record high since the unification of that country. Ireland, on its turn, concluded negotiations on a joint financial assistance package from the European Community, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and bilateral sources, totaling €85 billion. Regarding inflation rates, they have remained at very low levels in the G3 countries (US, Euro Area and Japan), despite the extremely expansionist economic policy actions, both at the fiscal and at the monetary sides. In a new effort in this direction, the US announced a $600 billion expansion of the monetary easing program and there is greater chance for an extension of fiscal incentives. Among emerging markets, it bears highlighting that the People’s Bank of China has raised the reserve requirements twice since the last Copom meeting. Tightening monetary policy actions were also observed in Chile, South Korea, Hungary and India, whereas further easing was recorded in South Africa. 
14. Oil prices, in spot and futures markets, remained near U$80. The low predictability of the asymmetric rebound of global economy, the dependence of supply growth on the maturity pace of risky investment projects and the geopolitical complexity of the sector add uncertainty to oil prices forecasts. The main scenario adopted by the Copom assumes unchanged domestic gasoline prices in 2011. However, it bears highlighting that, regardless of the behavior of local gasoline prices, oil prices swings might affect the domestic economy, for example, through the petrochemical sector or through the expectations channel. Regarding the prices of other commodities, it is noteworthy that the price index based on 22 commodities, published by the Commodity Research Bureau (CRB), has varied in recent weeks, around record levels. One factor that seems to contribute to the sharp elevations is the rebalancing of global demand from developed countries to emerging countries, where consumption tends to be more intensive in commodities. It also bears noticing that, in the recent past, the movement of commodity prices seems to have been strongly influenced by wide global liquidity. In recent weeks, however, there was some cooling in upward pressures, especially for agricultural commodities. The high volatility observed in commodities prices results from a context where financial markets adjust to new expectations of demand growth and to the remarkable volatility in FX markets. 
15. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to new set of available information. The scenario considered in the simulations was based on the following assumptions: 
a) the projected adjustments for gasoline in 2010 increased from 0%, considered at the October Copom meeting, to 1.6%, and for bottled gas prices, increased from 0% to 1.7%, for the same period. For 2011, the projected adjustments for gasoline and bottled gas prices stand at 0%, 
b) the projected adjustments for fixed telephone in 2010 reduced to 0.4%, down from 0.8%, considered at the October meeting, and for electricity prices in 2010, reduced to 2.8%, down from 3.6%. For 2011, the projected adjustments for fixed telephone and electricity rates stand at 2.9% and 2.8%, respectively, 
c) the projection for regulated prices inflation in 2010, based on individual items, according to the benchmark scenario, reduced to 3.4%, down from 3.6%, considered at the October meeting. For 2011, the projection reduced to 4%, down from 4.3%. This set of prices, according to data released by the IBGE, accounted for 29.15% of the total November IPCA, 
d) the projection for regulated prices inflation in 2012, according to the benchmark scenario, reached 4.4%. Such projection is based on endogenous determination models for regulated prices, which compute, among other factors, seasonal components, foreign exchange rate changes, market prices inflation and the IGP (General Price Index) change, and 
e) the projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, based on the 360-day swap rates, on the benchmark scenario, estimates 82 bps and 12 bps spreads in the fourth quarters of 2010 and 2011, respectively. For the third quarter of 2012, the estimate is 65 bps spread. 
16. Regarding fiscal policy, projections assume the achievement of a public sector primary surplus target of 3.1% of GDP in 2010. This percentage can be reduced by up to 0.90 p.p., due to the implementation of the projects linked to the Growth Acceleration Program (PAC), of which 0.44 p.p. refers to amounts to be paid from 2009. Moreover, it is expected that the primary surplus in 2011 would return, without adjustments, to 3% of GDP (according to parameters contained in the Budget Guidelines Law) and to 3.1% in 2012. 
17. The set of projections incorporated the estimated effects of the reserve requirements recently announced. 
18. Since the last Copom meeting, the median of the expectations compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations Group (Gerin) for the 2010 IPCA increased from 5.20% to 5.78%. For 2011, the median of inflation expectations increased from 4.99% to 5.20% and for 2012, it stands at 4.5%. 
19. The benchmark scenario assumes the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$1.70/US$1.00 and the Selic rate at 10.75% p.a. during the forecast period. Under this scenario, the projection for the 2010 inflation increased relative to the figure considered at the October Copom meeting, and it is remarkably above the 4.50% midpoint target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). According to the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin at the period immediately prior to the Copom meeting - IPCA inflation forecast for 2010 also increased, and it stands considerably above the inflation midpoint target. For 2011, under the benchmark scenario, the projection increased relative to the figure considered at the October Copom meeting and stands above the inflation midpoint target, whereas according to the market scenario, the projection remained stable. Regarding the third quarter of 2012, the projections increased in both scenarios, but remained around the inflation midpoint target. 
20. The Copom`s assessment is that monetary policy should contribute to the consolidation of a favorable longer-term macroeconomic environment. In this respect, the Copom reassures that, under the inflation-targeting regime, it guides its decisions according to projected inflation and based on the analysis of several alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine prices dynamics. The Committee also understands that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to reduce uncertainties regarding the future behavior of headline inflation, facilitate the assessment of scenarios by the monetary authority, as well as help the process of coordination of economic agents’ expectations, mainly price setters’. It is additionally noteworthy that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to reinforce the effects of monetary policy actions, enabling them to affect in a more long-lasting manner the dynamics of headline inflation in the future. Although the Copom recognizes that other actions of macroeconomic policy may influence the price trajectory, it reaffirms its view that it is the responsibility of the monetary policy to remain especially vigilant to guarantee that pressures detected in shorter horizons do not spread to longer horizons. 
21. International evidence, ratified by the Brazilian experience, indicates that high inflation rates lead to the increase in risk premium, both for private and public funding, and to the shortening of planning horizons, both for households and corporate. Consequently, high inflation rates reduce investment and the economic growth potential, in addition to presenting regressive effects on income distribution. Moreover, high inflation rates do not result in any lasting results for economic growth and employment level, on the contrary, they create permanent damage to these variables in the medium and long terms. Therefore, the strategy adopted by the Copom aims to ensure the convergence of inflation towards the targets path in 2010 and in the next years, which requires that possible deviations from the target path be promptly corrected. Such strategy takes into account the time lags in the transmission mechanism and is the most adequate to deal with the uncertainty inherent to the process of monetary policy formulation and implementation. 
22. As a consequence of the stabilization and correction of unbalances, which determined important structural changes, the process of maturing of the inflation target regime stands at an advanced stage, and it reflects favorably in the dynamics of neutral interest rate and in the power of monetary policy. Evidences under this respect can be observed, among other factors, through the accomplishment of inflation targets in the last six years, at the same time that real interest rates have reduced. Progress in the financial markets structure, the FX and inflationary risk premium reduction, among other factors, seem to have resulted in significant reduction of the neutral rate. The generation of primary surpluses consistent with the maintenance of decreasing trend for the public debt/GDP ratio also contributed for it. From another point-of-view, some of these developments, combined to others, such as the extension of contract tenures, also suggest that the power of monetary policy in Brazil has increased in the last years. Despite the substantial uncertainty that surrounds the calculation of non-observable variables, it should be emphasized that this perception is supported by estimates generated by the macroeconometric models used by the Copom. In addition, it is also noteworthy that, according to 49% of the analysts who responded to the consultation carried out by the BCB, the neutral rate in Brazil would currently be at levels equal to or lower than 6.50%. The Committee also considers that there are evidences that the traction of monetary policy increased in the recent past and, compared to what was observed some years ago, currently inflationary pressures are contained with more efficiency by monetary policy actions. 
23. In international markets, volatility and risk aversion have remained high since the last Copom meeting, partially fueled by the increase of global liquidity and by the prospects that this process can eventually accentuate. Concerns about European countries` sovereign debts and the possible deceleration in China have also grown, at the same time that doubs regarding the sustainability of the US economy recovery have persisted. The prices of some commodities and Brazilian assets remained relatively stable and, overall, prospects for external funding for the Brazilian economy remain favorable. Meanwhile, the trajectory of price indices evidences the increase of inflationary pressures in some relevant economies, whereas concerns regarding the prospects of deflation in other economies cooled down. In this context, the probability of some influence of external disinflation over domestic inflation retreated, although uncertainty about the behavior of asset and commodities prices persists in a context of substantial volatility in international financial markets. Regardless of how these aspects of the international outlook evolve, the Copom reaffirms its view that the main challenge of monetary policy is to ensure that the favorable results obtained over the last years be preserved. 
24. Although the accommodation observed in the last two quarters has been more intense than the expected at the start of the year, as evidenced, among others, by data on inventories and industrial production, the prospects for the evolution of domestic economic activity remain favorable. This assessment is supported, among other factors, by signs that the expansion of credit supply tends to persist, despite at a more moderate pace, both for individuals and corporate, and by the fact that consumers and businessmen confidence stands at historically high levels, notwithstanding some accommodation at the margin. The Copom considers, additionally, that the dynamism of domestic activity will continue to be benefited by the vigor of labor market, despite the cooling in the generation of jobs in specific segments. 
25. The Copom emphasizes, once more, that there are time lags between the implementation of monetary policy and its effects on both economic activity and inflation. Therefore, the assessment of alternative stances for monetary policy should necessarily focus on the forward-looking inflationary scenario and its risks, instead of current and past inflation figures. Since the August/September meeting, inflation was strong and negatively influenced by the dynamic of food prices, which in part reflected domestic and external supply shocks. These developments tend to be transmitted to the prospective scenario, among other mechanisms, through inertia, as pointed by the figures considered by the BCB in its inflation forecasts. It also bears highlighting the persistence of the mismatch between supply and demand growth rates. In this context, the Committee identifies risks to the materialization of a scenario in which inflation promptly converges to the midpoint target. 
26. The Copom evaluates, on the other hand, that the effects of the adjustment process in the base interest rate, interrupted in July 2010, haven’t completely materialized yet to price dynamics, and, at the same time, reaffirms that the main scenario is subject to the materialization of the trajectories regarding fiscal and parafiscal variables which the Committee considers. The main scenario also incorporates moderation in the credit pace. Regarding this last aspect, since the last meeting, the view of a substantial increase in the probability of materializing this hypothesis prevails, in light of the introduction of macroprudential initiatives. 
27. The Copom emphasizes that there is some equivalence among macroprudential and conventional monetary policy actions and that the importance of this link tends to grow with the deepening of the credit market, a phenomenon already observed in Brazil in the last years. However, these two sets of instruments cannot be seen as perfect substitutes, once they diverge, among other aspects, regarding scope and transmission mechanisms. The macroprudential actions recently announced are inserted in a wider process, which includes, among other aims, the reversion of stimuli introduced to outweigh the effects of the 2008/2009 crisis over the Brazilian economy. Together with other measures, they constitute a sequence of initiatives that aim to adequate domestic financial conditions to the after-crisis scenario, characterized by intense contrast among the prospective scenarios for the main economic blocks. Regarding this point, once the Copom shares the view that the banks` attitude regarding risk taking is one of the monetary policy transmission channels, macroprudential actions may precede conventional monetary policy actions. 
28. The intensity and frequency of shocks that both the global and Brazilian economies have undergone in the last years impose additional challenges to the analysis of the prospective scenario. The Committee recognizes an economic environment in which the uncertainty level prevails above the usual, where the risks for the consolidation of a benign inflationary scenario essentially stem from the domestic outlook. Among these risks, it bears mentioning those deriving from domestic demand expansion, in a context of narrow idleness margin in the use of production factors, although, in a recent past, a slight decline in the capacity utilization rate and a certain moderation in the dynamism of labor market (except for public administration) have been observed. 
29. In short, since the last Copom meeting, in the foreign outlook, extraordinary liquidity eases and their impact, in a certain way, immediate and generalized over assets prices, specially commodities, point to lower probability of reversion of the still slow recovery process in which G3 economies stand. On the other hand, these liquidity eases evidence the ambiguous influence of the international scenario over domestic inflation behavior. Regarding the domestic outlook, the effects of Selic rate adjustments have not been totally incorporated into price dynamics. Additionally, recently announced macroprudential measures, a quick and powerful instrument to contain localized demand pressures, will still have their effects incorporated to price dynamics. Still, since the last Copom meeting, the materialization of short-run risks which the Copom considered at that opportunity has continued, but it revealed to be at a magnitude higher than previously anticipated. Although the uncertainties that surround the global scenario, and at a lower scale, the domestic scenario, do not allow the clear identification of the lastingness of the recent pressures, the current balance of risks is less favorable to the materialization of a benign scenario, in which inflation would consistently follow the targets trajectory. 
30. In this context, after having considered the macroeconomic context and inflation prospects, the Copom unanimously decided to maintain the Selic rate at 10.75% p.a., without bias. In light of a less favorable prospective scenario than that observed in the last meeting, but considering that, due to credit and liquidity conditions, the BCB recently introduced macroprudential measures, among the Committee members prevailed the understanding that additional time will be necessary in order to better measure the effect of these initiatives over monetary conditions. In this sense, the Committee understood it is not opportune to reevaluate monetary policy strategy at this meeting and will attentively follow the evolution of the macroeconomic scenario until its next meeting, to then define the next steps in its monetary policy strategy. 
31. Domestic demand is robust, largely due to the effects of stimulus factors, such as income growth and credit expansion. Moreover, although tending to cool down, fiscal and credit incentives have been provided to the economy in the last quarters, and should still contribute for the consolidation of activity expansion and, hence, for the maintenance of the idleness margin of factors at low levels. The effects of these stimuli, however, are counterbalanced by the effects of the reversal of substantial share of the initiatives taken during the recent 2008/2009 financial crisis and by recent macroprudential initiatives. These elements are an important part of the context in which future monetary policy decisions will be taken, aiming to ensure the timely convergence of inflation to the targets path. 