1. After recording 0.77% in April, monthly inflation measured by IPCA reached 0.47% in May. As a consequence, twelve-month trailing inflation reached 6.55% in May 2011 (6.51% in April and 6.30% in March), 1.33 p.p. above inflation registered in the twelve months through May 2010. The inflation increase in this period reflected both the behavior of market prices, which increased 6.80% (5.59% in the same period of 2010), as regulated prices, which increased 5.96% (4.32% in the same period of 2010). Regarding market prices, it bears highlighting that tradable goods inflation reached 5.96% and non-tradable goods 7.53%. Services price inflation continues at high levels and, in the twelve-month period through May 2011, it reached 8.54%, the highest level since August 1997. In short, the set of available information suggests that prices acceleration observed in 2010, process led by market prices, shows some persistence, in part because services inflation remains at high levels. 
2. In the first five months of 2011, IPCA increased 3.71%, 0.62p.p. above inflation observed in the same period of 2010. The main contributors were education, transport and personal expenses, that increased 7.33%, 4.98% and 4.40%, respectively, compared to 5.53%, 1.71% and 3.40%, in the same period of 2010. These items were responsible for 1.88 p.p. of the headline inflation in the period. Food and beverage inflation, 3.39%, was below that observed for in the first five months of 2010 (5.48%).In the twelve months ended in May, food and beverage prices continue to play a relevant role in the headline inflation dynamics, accumulating 8.20% (7.83% in April). The recent increase in food prices reflected, in part, domestic and external supply shocks, heightened by the high liquidity environment in international financial markets and by global demand increase. 
3. Each of the three main underlying inflation measures calculated by the BCB performed similarly to the headline inflation: while there was stability in the twelve-month accumulated inflation until May, as compared to the previous month, average monthly rates retreated between March and May. The smoothed trimmed means core inflation increased from 0.49% in March to 0.60% in April, and 0.62% in May. The double weight core inflation, after registering 0.70% in March, decreased to 0.68% in April and to 0.59% in May, while the core inflation by exclusion went from 0.70% in March to 0.52% in April and to 0.54% in May. Thus, the average change of the three core measures changed from 0.63% in March to 0.60% in April, and to 0.58% in May. In the twelve-month period until May, the three core measures registered 5.84%, 6.68% and 6.30%, respectively, compared to 5.84%, 6.66% and 6.32% in April, and 5.73%, 6.39% and 6.22% in March. The IPCA diffusion index, which had reached 68.23% in March, retreated to 59.38% in April, but increased again in May (64.84%), and continues to show a spreading price acceleration. 
4. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) inflation retreated strongly in May, registering 0.01%, compared to 0.50% in April. In the twelve-month period through May it accumulated 9.14%, above the 4.38% registered in the same period through May 2010. Under this criterion, the index has been slowing since December 2010, when it recorded a 11.30% change. Inflation measured by its main component, the Wholesale Price Index (IPA-DI), reached 10.30% in twelve months, reflecting an increase of 6.85% in the industrial IPA and 21.28% in the agricultural IPA. In the breakdown according to the production phase, raw material prices accumulated 25.16% change, intermediate goods 5.66% and final goods 4.62% in the same basis. Inflation measured by the Consumer Price Index (IPC-DI), another component of the IGP-DI, recorded 6.37% in the twelve months through May 2011, above the 5.28% recorded until May 2010. According to the same comparison basis, the Civil Construction National Index (INCC), component with the lowest weight in the IGP-DI, increased 8.52% (6.07% in May 2010). The Producer Price Index/Manufacturing Industry, calculated by IBGE, that measures the industry price level excluding freights and taxes, registered 0.34% increase in April, compared to 0.39% in March and 0.60% in February. In twelve months, this index decreased to 6.73% in April, from 6.81% in March. As emphasized in previous Copom Minutes, the Copom evaluates that the effects of wholesale prices over consumer price inflation will depend, among other factors, on the current and prospective demand conditions, the exposure of each sector to external and domestic competition, as well as on the price setters’ expectations for the future inflation path. 
5. The IBGE released information about 2011Q1 GDP. The data showed expansion in activity, which increased 4.2% in the first quarter, year-over-year, and 1.3% quarter-over-quarter, according to seasonally adjusted data. On the aggregate demand side, household consumption and public administration consumption increased, respectively, 5.9% and 2.1%, year-over-year. Gross fixed capital formation (FBCF) increased 8.8%, whereas exports increased 4.3% and imports grew 13.1%, according to the same comparison basis. It is noteworthy that the investment rate reached 18.4%, slightly higher than the rate recorded in the first quarter of 2010 (18.2%). The imports and domestic production of machinery and equipment contributed to higher investment. According to the result accumulated in the last four quarters, the contribution of domestic demand to GDP growth fell from 10.3 p.p. in the 2010Q4 to 8.8 p.p. in the 2011Q1, while the negative contribution of external sector decreased from 2.8 p.p. to 2.5 p.p., respectively. On the aggregate supply side, according to the year-over-year comparison basis, all the sectors expanded: the industry grew by 3.5%, agriculture 3.1% and the services sector 4%. 
6. The Economic Activity Index of the BCB (IBC-Br) incorporates estimates for the monthly production of the three sectors of the economy, as well as for taxes on production, constituting, therefore, an important coincident indicator of economic activity. Considering seasonally adjusted data, the IBC-Br grew 0.5% in March, after increasing 0.4% in February and 0.7% in January and as consequence showed a 1.3% increase in 2011Q1. A moderation in the growth rate trend persists in the IBC-Br accumulated in twelve months, reducing from 7.3% in February to 6.5% in March, towards long-term sustainable levels. The Services Confidence Index (ICS), from FGV, reduced, in the margin, 1.4% in May, after increasing 3.0% in April and retreating 1.9% in March. Therefore the level of this index in May was 0.1% higher than that measured in May 2010 and the average index in the first five months of 2011 was 0.4% below the average in the same period of 2010. 
7. Industrial activity showed retraction in April, with a 2.1% decrease in the industrial output, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, after recording an increase of 1.1% in March - month when was hit a new record high -, and 1.9% in February, month-on-month. The three-month moving average growth rate reached 0.3% in the period between February and April, standing at a level below the 1.1% growth measured in the period from January to March. Year-over-year, the industrial output retreated 1.3% in April and in the last twelve months, output increased 5.5% in April, down from 6.8% in March, continuing the process of growth cooling. Since December 2008, month with the lowest output level during the 2008/09 crisis, the growth accumulated until April 2011 was 25.1%. The post-crisis recovery dynamics was partially supported by the growth of industrial activity financing by public financial institutions. 
8. Among the industry use categories, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, all the output categories in April showed retraction, month-on-month: intermediate goods decreased 0.6%, capital goods 2.9%, non-durable and semi-durable consumer goods 1.5%, durable consumer goods 10.1%. In twelve months through April 2011, intermediate goods output increased 5.8%, non-durable and semi-durable consumer goods output increased 2.6%, and durable consumer goods output grew 3.4%. According to the same comparison basis, capital goods industry activity growth is the highest among use categories, with a 13.7% increase, evidencing the investment robustness, a relevant factor for economic recovery in the post-crisis period.
9. The unemployment rate in the six metropolitan regions covered by the IBGE Monthly Labor Survey (PME), according to observed data, decreased from 6.5% in March 2011 to 6.4% in April, below the 7.3% level registered in April 2010. After reaching 9.0% in March 2009, the observed data not only significantly reduced until April 2011, but reached a record low for the month since the start of the series in March 2002. The seasonally adjusted rate registered 6.0% in April, a 0.1 p.p. decrease compared to March. Employment, measured by the number of employed workers in the six biggest metropolitan regions, year-over-year, increased 2.3% in April. Data from the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) indicate growth in formal employment in eleven out of the twelve last months. In April, 272.2 thousand jobs were created (305.1 thousand in April 2010), while in March 92.7 thousand jobs were created. Services and Manufacturing Industry were the sectors that mostly contributed for the formal employment increase in April. According to PME, real average earnings observed in April decreased 1.8% month-on-month and increased 1.8% year-over-year. As a consequence, real payroll, considering real average earnings in the six metropolitan regions, expanded 4.3% in April, year-over-year, continuing to constitute a key driver for the maintenance of domestic demand growth. 
10. According to the retail monthly survey (PMC) from IBGE, expanded retail sales decreased 2.5% in March, year-over-year, after recording a 14.7% growth in February and 11.2% in January. According to the seasonally adjusted series, expanded retail sales showed month-on-month increase of 1.7% in March, after reducing 0.5% in February and 0.3% in January. Therefore, average sales growth rate in the first quarter of 2011 accelerated to 7.1%, quarter-over-quarter. It also bears noticing that 12-month accumulated growth rate decelerated to 10.2% in March (from 12.4% in February), and, according to the last two comparison bases, all ten sectors surveyed expanded in March, with highlights, by importance, for vehicles and motorcycles, parts and pieces (10.7%) and furniture and appliances (17.2%). In the next months, the retail trajectory will continue to be benefited by governmental transfers, real payroll growth, consumer confidence and an even more moderate credit expansion. 
11. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry, calculated by FGV, without seasonal adjustment, changed from 84.0% in April to 84.1% in May. These values are 0.5p.p. lower than the levels observed in the same period of 2010. According to the seasonally adjusted monthly series calculated by FGV, the Nuci kept unchanged in 84.4% in May. The Nuci is higher at construction inputs (88.5%) and intermediate goods (85.9%). At the margin, construction inputs, intermediate and capital goods showed increases in Nuci (0.5p.p, 0.4 p.p. and 0.1 p.p., respectively), while consumer goods decreased 0.6p.p.. According to the Confederation of National Industry (CNI) data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, the Nuci in April reached 82.1%, down from 82.6% in March. In fact, installed capacity utilization rates have shown relative stability, at high levels. The high occupation level reflects the recent expansion in economic activity, whose effects have not been totally offset by the maturity of investment projects. In this sense, the absorption of capital goods grew 20.8% in the last twelve months through April, while construction inputs production for civil construction increased 7.9%. As stressed in previous Copom Minutes, the inflation trajectory is closely linked to current and prospective developments related to the expansion of supply of goods and services to adequately meet demand conditions. 
12. The trade balance result in the last twelve months increased from US$23.1 billion in April to US$23.2 billion in May. This result stemmed from US$224.4 billion in exports and US$201.3 billion in imports, equivalent to 32.3% and 36.0% changes, respectively, compared to the twelve-month period ended in May 2010. Current account deficit accumulated in twelve months changed from US$50.0 billion in March to US$48.9 billion in April, equivalent to 2.25% of GDP. On its turn, foreign direct investment reached US$63.7 billion in the twelve months through April, equivalent to 2.93% of GDP, exceeding the needs for external funding. 
13. The global economy recovery follows different speeds and asymmetrical inflation pressures. There are evidences, however, of activity moderation at the margin, due to the developments of the disaster in Japan, the uncertainties about the US recovery, the high price of oil, as well as the effects of monetary tightening in important emerging economies. In fact, the compound leading indicator released by the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD), for example, signaled world recovery continuity in March, but with a certain moderation in emerging markets. On the other hand, the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) for the global economy, that shows the industry and service sector activity level, after reaching, in February, the highest level since 2006 (59.2), reduced to lower levels in March (54.5), April (51.8) and May (52.6). The disaggregated PMI indicators evidence lower dynamism in the US and in the Euro Zone, without affecting the positive trend. The macroeconomic prospects for the Euro Zone continue to exhibit strong asymmetries: while some economies remain impacted by the insolvency risk and subject to strong fiscal adjustment, the pace of expansion remains strong in other regions, like Germany. Regarding monetary policy, mature economies continued to show very accommodative monetary stances. Inflation rate cores are still at moderate levels in the G3 group (US, Euro Zone and Japan). For the emerging countries, there are widespread inflationary pressures and since the last Copom meeting there were renewed monetary tightening in several emerging markets. In particular, the People’s Bank of China raised reserve requirements to banks once again, reaching the eighth increase in reserve requirements since October 2010, as well as four increases in the reference interest rates for deposits and lending. 
14. Brent oil prices showed volatility and remains above US$115 (however, a level lower than the observed at the Copom last meeting). This price level is consistent with a framework of apparent strengthening of the global demand as well as of political instability in some countries of the Middle East and, especially, in North Africa. It bears highlighting that geopolitical complexity that involves the oil sector tends to heighten price volatility, which is also a reflex of the low predictability of some global demand components and of the dependency of supply growth on long term risky investment projects. Regarding the other commodities, it is noteworthy the moderation of agricultural and metallic commodities prices, after months of relevant increases. In particular, the pricing rules of major international mining companies for iron ore in the third quarter should lead to price stability. The food price index, calculated by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), which considers 55 items, remained stable in May 2011, but remains at high levels compared to that observed in the same month last year. In recent past, the high volatility observed in commodities prices was strongly impacted by the abundant global liquidity, in a context where financial markets adjust to new expectations of demand growth and to FX markets volatility. 
15. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to the new set of available information. The scenario considered in the simulations was based on the following assumptions: 
a) the projected adjustments for gasoline accumulated for 2011, grew to 4.0%, from the 2.2% considered in the April Copom meeting, contemplating, therefore, partial reversal of the increase of 10.5% occurred up to May, whereas the adjustments for bottled gas prices, for the same period, were kept unchanged at 0%, 
b) the projected adjustments for fixed telephone and electricity rates in 2011 were kept at 2.9% and 2.8%, respectively, 
c) the projection for regulated prices inflation in 2011, based on individual items, according to the benchmark scenario, was increased to 4.6%, against 4.3% considered in the April meeting. This set of prices, according to data released by the IBGE, accounted for 29.06% of the total May IPCA, 
d) the projection for regulated prices inflation in 2012, according to the benchmark scenario, was decreased to 4.3%, down from 4.4% considered in the April meeting. Such projection is based on endogenous determination models for regulated prices, which compute, among other factors, seasonal components, foreign exchange rate changes, market prices inflation and the IGP (General Price Index) change, and 
e) the projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, based on the 360-day swap rates, on the benchmark scenario, estimates 41 bps and -44 bps spreads in the fourth quarters of 2011 and 2012, respectively 
16. Regarding fiscal policy, projections assume the achievement of the public sector primary surplus target of R$117.9 billion (around 2.9% of GDP), without adjustments, in 2011 (according to parameters contained in the Budget Guidelines Law - 2011). Moreover, a primary surplus of R$139.8 billion (or around 3.1% of GDP) is considered for 2012, according to Budget Guidelines Law project - 2012 parameters, including the effect of the minimum wage increase projected for 2012. 
17. The set of projections incorporated the estimated effects of the reserve requirements changes announced in December 2010. 
18. Since the last Copom meeting, the median of the expectations compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations and Special Studies Department (Gerin) for the 2011 IPCA decreased from 6.29% to 6.22%. For 2012, the median of inflation expectations moved from 5.00% to 5.10%. Specifically for banks, asset managers and other institutions (real sector companies, brokers, consultancies and others), the medians for the 2011 IPCA changed from 6.26%, 6.48% and 6.19% to 6.21%, 6.22% e 6.27%, respectively. For 2012, the medians changed from 4.80%, 5.19% and 4.86% to 5%, 5.4% and 5%, in the same order. 
19. The benchmark scenario assumes the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$1.60/US$1.00 and the Selic rate at 12% p.a. during the forecast period. Under this scenario, the projection for the 2011 inflation decreased relatively to the figure considered at the April Copom meeting, and it stands above the 4.50% midpoint target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). According to the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin in the period immediately prior to the Copom meeting - IPCA inflation forecast for 2011 also decreased and stands above the inflation midpoint target. For 2012, the projection remained stable in both the benchmark and the market scenarios, and therefore remained above the midpoint target in both scenarios. In an alternative scenario, that considers the maintenance of the exchange rate, during the forecast period, at levels observed in the recent past, and the interest trend collected by Gerin, the projected inflation is above the target for 2011 and around this value for 2012. 
20. The Copom evaluates that monetary policy should contribute to the consolidation of a favorable longer-term macroeconomic environment. In this respect, the Copom reassures that, under the inflation-targeting regime, it guides its decisions according to BCB projected inflation and based on the analysis of alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine prices dynamics. The Committee also understands that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to reduce uncertainties regarding the future behavior of headline inflation, facilitate the assessment of scenarios by the monetary authority, as well as help the process of coordination of economic agents’ expectations, particularly price setters’. Additionally, it is noteworthy that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to reinforce the effects of monetary policy actions, enabling them to affect in a more long-lasting manner the dynamics of headline inflation in the future. Although the Copom recognizes that other actions of macroeconomic policy may influence the price trajectory, it reaffirms its view that it is the responsibility of the monetary policy to remain especially vigilant to guarantee that pressures detected in shorter horizons do not spread to longer horizons. 
21. International evidence, ratified by the Brazilian experience, indicates that high inflation rates lead to the increase in risk premium, both for private and public funding, and to the shortening of planning horizons, both for households and companies. Consequently, high inflation rates reduce investment and economic growth potential, in addition to presenting regressive effects on income distribution. Moreover, high inflation rates do not originate any lasting results for economic and employment growth, on the contrary, they create permanent damage to these variables in the medium and long terms. Therefore, the strategy adopted by the Copom aims to ensure the convergence of inflation towards the targets path, which requires that deviations from the target path be promptly corrected. Such strategy takes into account the time lags in the transmission mechanism and is the most adequate to deal with the uncertainty inherent to the process of monetary policy formulation and implementation. 
22. As a consequence of the stabilization and correction of unbalances, which determined important structural changes, the process of maturing of the inflation targeting regime stands at an advanced stage, and it reflects favorably in the dynamics of neutral interest rate and in the power of monetary policy. Evidences under this respect can be observed, among other factors, through the accomplishment of inflation targets in the last seven years, at the same time that real interest rates have reduced. Progress in the financial markets structure, the reduction of both FX and inflationary risk premia, among other factors, seem to have determined significant reduction in the neutral rate. The generation of primary surpluses consistent with the maintenance of the decreasing trend for the public debt/GDP ratio also contributed for it. From another point-of-view, some of these developments, combined to others, such as the extension of contract tenures, also suggest that the power of monetary policy in Brazil has been increasing in the last years, despite the substantial uncertainty that surrounds the calculation of non-observable variables. The Committee also considers that there are evidences that the traction of monetary policy increased in the recent past and, compared to what was observed some years ago, currently inflationary pressures are contained with more efficiency by monetary policy actions. 
23. The Copom observes that, in international markets, volatility and risk aversion have increased since the last meeting, mostly fueled by the extraordinary levels of liquidity and increasing uncertainty regarding the recovery of global activity. In this period, increased the concerns about European countries` sovereign and banking debts and the possible slowdown in economic activity in China. Prices of important commodities retreated, mainly agricultural and, at the same time, some stability in the US currency was observed. In general, the perspectives for Brazilian economy external financing remain favorable. In other side, the price indices path shows clear dissemination of inflation pressures in the main economies. 
24. The Copom evaluates that, although moderation of domestic demand growth is observed, yet at an uncertain pace, prospects for economic activity are favorable as even suggested by preliminary information about the pace of economic growth in this quarter. This assessment is supported by signs that, despite showing some cooling, point to the fact that the expansion of credit supply tends to persist, both for individuals and corporate, and by the fact that consumers and businessmen confidences stand at historically high levels, notwithstanding some accommodation at the margin, among other factors. The Copom considers, additionally, that the dynamism of domestic activity will continue to be benefited by the vigor of labor market, mirrored in historically low unemployment rates and substantial growth of real wages. 
25. The Copom evaluates that the inflation prospective scenario show more favorable signs since the last meeting. In the last quarter of 2010 and in the first quarter of 2011, inflation was strongly and negatively impacted by domestic and external supply shocks. Evidences suggest that consumer prices have already incorporated substantial part of the direct effects of these shocks. Also relevant were the direct effects of the atypical concentration of regulated prices adjustments in the first quarter of the year that, in specific cases, show signs of reversal. The Committee considers that these effects shall still impact consumer prices dynamics, among other mechanisms, through inertia. At the same time, it evaluates, as relevant, risks derived from the persistence of the mismatch between supply and demand growth rates, despite the signs that this mismatch tends to retreat. Moreover, it highlights the narrow idleness margin of the production factors, especially labor force, and analyzes that, in such circumstances, a very important risk stems from the possibility of concession of nominal wages increases incompatible with productivity growth and its negative impact on the inflation dynamics. It is also relevant to notice the risks associated to commodities prices trajectory in international markets, which, despite recent signs of moderation, have been presenting surrounded by great uncertainty. 
26. The Copom considers two distinct moments for inflation trajectory, according to the 2011 main scenario. In this quarter and in the following, inflation accumulated in twelve months tends to remain at levels above those observed in the first quarter. This, in great part, is explained by the high inertia that stemmed from 2010, by the duration of the shocks that hit the economy at the end of last year, that extended to the first quarter of this year, and by the fact that the projections of inflation for the quarter June/August 2011 point to average inflation rates above those registered in the same period in 2010. However, from the fourth quarter on, the main scenario indicates a downward trend for the inflation accumulated in twelve months, moving toward the target direction. 
27. The Copom reaffirms that the inflation main scenario considers the materialization of its trajectories regarding fiscal variables. It bears highlighting that the generation of primary surpluses in line with the hypotheses considered for inflation projections, besides contributing to reduce the mismatches between supply and demand growth rates, will strengthen the reduction trend in the public debt/GDP ratio. It bears highlighting that, since the beginning of this year, important decisions have been taken and implemented, which reinforce the view that a fiscal consolidation process is in place. 
28. The Copom highlights that its main scenario for inflation also considers moderation in credit expansion, for which macroprudential and traditional monetary policy actions recently adopted contribute. Still about this market, the Committee considers opportune the introduction of initiatives with the aim of moderating the concession of subsidies regarding the credit operations. 
29. In short, the Copom recognizes an economic environment in which an above-than-usual uncertainty level prevails, and identifies risks to the materialization of a scenario where inflation promptly converges to the midpoint target. Since the last Copom meeting, at the external outlook, evidence shows moderation in the recovery process experienced by the G3 economies and, in another perspective, still reveals ambiguous influence on the behavior of domestic inflation. Regarding the domestic outlook, macroprudential actions and, mainly, conventional monetary policy actions recently implemented will still have their effects incorporated to price dynamics. Although growing uncertainties that surround the global outlook and, at a minor magnitude, the domestic one, do not allow the clear identification of the degree of persistence of recent inflationary pressures, the Committee evaluates that the inflation prospective scenario shows more favorable signs.
30. In this context, continuing the process of monetary conditions gradual adjustment, the Copom decided, unanimously, to increase the Selic rate to 12.25%, without bias. Considering the risks balance for the inflation, the pace still uncertain of the domestic activity moderation, as well as the complexity that affects the international environment, the Committee understands that the implementation of adjustments in monetary conditions by a sufficiently prolongued period remains the most adequate strategy to guarantee the inflation convergence to the target in 2012.
31. Domestic demand is robust, largely due to the effects of stimulus factors, such as income growth and credit expansion. Moreover, although recent initiatives point to constraint in public sector expenditures, fiscal and credit incentives provided to the economy in the last quarters shall still contribute for the activity expansion and, hence, for the maintenance of the idleness level of factors at low levels. The effects of these stimuli, however, are counterbalanced by the effects of the reversal of initiatives taken during the recent 2008/09 financial crisis, by the recent macroprudential actions and, mainly, by conventional monetary policy actions taken this year. These elements and the fiscal and quasi fiscal developments are an important part of the context in which future monetary policy decisions will be taken, aiming to ensure the timely convergence of inflation to the targets path.  