1. After recording 0.15% in June, monthly inflation measured by IPCA reached 0.16% in July. As a consequence, twelve-month inflation through July 2011 reached 6.87% (6.71% in June), 2.27 p.p. above inflation registered in the twelve months through June 2010. The inflation elevation in this period reflected the behavior of both market prices, which increased 7.38% (4.88% in the same period of 2010), and regulated prices, which increased 5.67% (3.95% in the same period of 2010). Regarding market prices, it bears highlighting that tradable goods inflation reached 6.44% (2.58% in the same period of 2010), while inflation related to non-tradable goods increased 8.18% (6.97% in the same period of 2010). It should be noted, in another perspective that the twelve-month change through July of the durable goods prices stood at -0.95%, of the semi-durable goods at 7.20% and of the nondurable goods at 8.73%. Despite the moderation at the margin, services price inflation continues at high levels, with monthly growth of 0.42% in July, down from 0.60% in June. In the twelve-month period through July 2011, services inflation reached 8.82%, the highest level since September 1997. In short, the set of available information suggests persistence in the price increase observed in 2010, process led by market prices, which, in part, reflects the fact that services inflation remains at high levels. 
2. The underlying inflation measures calculated by the BCB performed similarly to headline inflation: while the twelve-month inflation through July increased, the average of the monthly rates retreated between May and July. The smoothed trimmed means core inflation increased to 0.41% in July, from 0.54% in June and 0.64% in May, while the non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation increased to 0.28% in July, from 0.44% in June and 0.45% in May. Similarly, the double weight core inflation, after registering 0.59% in May, decreased to 0.42% in June and to 0.38% in July. At the same time, core inflation by exclusion, which excludes 10 items of food at home and fuel, totaled 0.33% in July, down from 0.56% in June and 0.54% in May, while core inflation by exclusion of regulated prices and of household food at home changed from 0.43% to 0.50%, and 0.40% in the same period. Therefore, the average change of these five core measures retreated to 0.36% in July, down from 0.49% in June and 0.53% in May. In the twelve-month period up to July, the five core measures registered 6.18%, 5.71%, 7.01%, 6.61% and 7.12%, respectively, compared to 6.01%, 5.59%, 6.82%, 6.51% and 6.91% in June, and 5.86%, 5.40%, 6.68%, 6.30% and 6.80% in May. 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) inflation registered deflation of 0.05% in July and of 0.13% in June, compared to inflation of 0.01% in May. In the twelve-month period through July, the variation of this index reached 8.34%, up from 5.98% in July 2010. Note that, however, under this criterion, the index has been slowing down since December 2010, when it recorded 11.30% change. Inflation measured by its main component, the Wholesale Price Index (IPA-DI), reached 9.09% in twelve months through July, reflecting an increase of 5.95% in the industrial IPA and of 19.14% in the agricultural IPA. The breakdown according to the production phase shows that raw material prices accumulated 19.86% change, while the prices of intermediate goods and final goods increased 5.04% and 5.46%, respectively, following the same comparison basis. Inflation measured by the Consumer Price Index (IPC-DI), another component of the IGP-DI, recorded 6.58% in the twelve months through July 2011, above the 4.36% recorded until July 2010. According to the same comparison basis, the Civil Construction National Index (INCC), component with the lowest weight in the IGP-DI, increased 7.76% (6.67% in July 2010). The Producer Price Index/Manufacturing Industry (IPP/IT), calculated by the IBGE, which measures the industry price level excluding freights and taxes, registered 0.66% deflation in June, compared to a fall of 0.46% in May and an increase of 0.28% in April. In twelve months, the variation of this index decreased to 4.89% in June, from 5.69% in May. 
4. The Economic Activity Index of the BCB (IBC-Br) incorporates estimates for the monthly production of the three sectors of the economy, as well as for taxes on production, and constitutes, therefore, an important coincident indicator of economic activity. Considering seasonally adjusted data, the IBC-Br declined 0.3% in June, after registering stability in May and an increase of 0.4% in April. As consequence, the index increased 0.7% in 2011Q2, compared to the previous quarter, down from 1.1% increase in 2011Q1. For the IBC-Br accumulated in twelve months, the moderation in the growth rate trend persists, reducing to 4.9% in June, from 5.3% in May. The Services Confidence Index (ICS), from FGV, increased 0.8% in July, after two equal and consecutive falls (-1.4% in May and June). Therefore, the level of the indicator in July stood 2.4% above that measured in July 2010 and relatively stable compared to the average level of 2010. 
5. Industrial activity showed expansion in July, with a 0.5% increase in the industrial output, month-on-month, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, after recording a decrease of 1.2% in June and an increase of 1.1% in May. The three-month moving average growth rate reached 0.1% in the period from May to July, after a decline of 0.9% in the period from April to June. Year-over-year, industrial output decreased 0.3% in July, while in the twelve-month period there was an increase of 2.9%, compared to 3.7% in June, continuing the process of growth moderation. Since December 2008, month with the lowest output level during the 2008/09 crisis, the accumulated growth until July 2011 was 25.4%. 
6. Among the industry use categories, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, capital goods and durable consumer goods increased in July, respectively, 1.7% and 2.9%, month-on-month, whereas the production of non-durable and semi-durable consumer goods increased 3.8%. In the production of intermediate goods, there was a decline of 0.7%. In the twelve months through July 2011, intermediate goods output increased 2.6%, durable consumer goods output grew 1.8% and non-durable and semi-durable consumer goods output increased 1.6%. According to the same comparison basis, capital goods industry activity growth is the highest among use categories, recording an 8.3% increase. 
7. The unemployment rate in the six metropolitan regions covered by the IBGE Monthly Labor Survey (PME), according to observed data, decreased to 6.0% in July, down from 6.2% in June, compared to the 6.9% level registered in July 2010. After reaching 9.0% in March 2009, the observed data not only significantly reduced until July 2011, but reached a record low for the month since the start of the series in March 2002. The seasonally adjusted rate registered 5.9% in July, a 0.2 p.p. decrease compared to June. Employment, measured by the number of employed workers in the six main metropolitan regions, year-over-year, increased 2.1% in July, after an expansion of 2.3% in June. Data from the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) indicate that in July 140.6 thousand jobs were created (181.8 thousand in July 2010), with expansion of formal jobs in all the eight sectors of economic activity. Services and retail were the sectors that mostly contributed for the formal employment increase in July. According to PME, real average earnings observed in July increased 2.2% month-on-month and 4.0% year-over-year. As a consequence, real payroll, considering real average earnings in the six metropolitan regions, expanded 6.2% in July, year-over-year. The payroll expansion is an important factor in sustaining growth in domestic demand. 
8. According to the retail monthly survey (PMC) from IBGE, expanded retail sales increased 9.5% in June, year-over-year, after recording 12.9% growth in May and 12% in April, according to the same comparison basis. According to the seasonally adjusted series, expanded retail sales showed month-on-month increase of 0.5% in June, after expanding 0.9% in May and 1.2% in April. The twelve-month accumulated growth rate reached 10.9% in June, up from 10.5% in May and 10.2% in April. In the last twelve months through June, all ten sectors surveyed showed growth in sales volume, with highlights in terms of growth, for equipment and office supplies, computer and communication (18.7%), furniture and appliances (17.1%), vehicles, motorcycles and parts (14.2%) and construction inputs (14%). In the next months, the retail trajectory will continue to be benefited by governmental transfers, by the pace of growth of real payroll, by the consumer confidence and by credit expansion, with the perspective of moderation. 
9. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry, calculated by FGV, without seasonal adjustment, kept unchanged in 84.0% in August. Thus, capacity utilization was 1.0 p.p. and 1.4 p.p., respectively, lower than the ones observed in July and August 2010. According to the seasonally adjusted monthly series calculated by FGV, the Nuci fell from 84.1% to 83.6% in August, the lowest level since November 2009. Capacity utilization is higher in the construction inputs sector (88.6%) and intermediate goods (85.8%). In the sector of capital goods, the Nuci stood at 83.8%, while in the sector of consumer goods it stood at 83.4%. According to the Confederation of National Industry (CNI) data, seasonally adjusted by the BCB, the Nuci decreased from 82.4% in May to 82.2% in June. Though they remain at high levels, rates of capacity utilization have shown a downward trend at the margin, reflecting, in part, the maturation process of investments. In fact, the absorption of capital goods grew by 14.1% in the last twelve months through July, while production of construction inputs for the civil construction grew by 5.6%. 
10. The trade balance surplus in the last twelve months increased from US$25.3 billion in June to US$ 27.1 billion in July. This result stemmed from US$235.6 billion in exports and US$208.6 billion in imports, equivalent to 34.1% and 31.9% changes, respectively, in the last twelve months through July. The current account deficit accumulated in twelve months fell from US$49 billion in June to US$ 47.9 billion in July, equivalent to 2.1% of GDP. On its turn, foreign direct investment reached US$72.2 billion in the twelve months through July, equivalent to 3.17% of GDP, exceeding the needs for external funding. 
11. Global economy faces period of high uncertainty, with deterioration in the prospects for short and medium term in the advanced countries and some activity moderation in emerging countries. The risks to global financial stability increased, among others, by the possible exposure of international banks to sovereign debt, especially in the Euro Zone. The uncertainties were amplified, since the last Copom meeting, in part due to the United States´ sovereign debt rating revision. It should be noted that the risk aversion levels - for example, measured by spreads and implied volatilities in equity markets, bonds and currencies - already exceed those achieved in mid-2010. From another perspective, high rates of unemployment for a long period, coupled with the need for fiscal adjustment, and limited scope for monetary policy actions, have contributed to revisions for growth projections in the advanced countries or even for its potential growth, indicating a wider and more volatile business cycle. In fact, the composite leading indicator released by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), for June, showed strong signs of inflection in the main economies, with lower growth prospects in the coming months. Disaggregated indicators of the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) for July and August related to the activity in industry and services sector are consistent with this scenario, suggesting stagnation in the United States (USA.), China, France and Germany, and contraction the rest of the Euro Zone. Regarding monetary policy, the mature economies continued to adopt accommodative monetary stances. About inflation, the core measures persist at moderate levels in the G3 (US, Euro Zone and Japan), with the Euro Zone showing an increase in core inflation in July year-over-year, and a fall compared to June 2011. In spite of still widespread inflationary pressures in emerging countries, there was discontinuity of monetary tightening cycles. 
12. Oil prices as defined by the Brent Blend have shown volatility and remains above US$115. This price level is consistent with a framework of global demand stability, coupled with high political instability in producer countries and lags in the process of resuming production. It bears highlighting that the geopolitical complexity that involves the oil sector tends to heighten price volatility, which is also a reflex of the low predictability of some global demand components and of the dependency of supply growth on long term risky investment projects. Regarding the other commodities, it is noteworthy the increase in international prices of agricultural and reduction in metallic commodities prices, after successive months with significant increases, despite the strong correction in risky assets prices. The food price index, calculated by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), which considers 55 items, has presented some stability, but remains at high levels. In recent past, the high volatility observed in commodities prices was strongly impacted by the abundant global liquidity, in a context where financial markets adjust to new expectations of demand growth and to FX markets volatility. 
13. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to the new set of available information. The scenario considered in the simulations was based on the following assumptions: 
a) the projected adjustments for gasoline prices accumulated in 2011 remained at 4.0%, considered in the July Copom meeting, including, therefore, partial reversal of the 6.3% increase occurred up to July, the adjustments for bottled gas prices, for the same period, were kept unchanged at 0%, 
b) the projected adjustment for fixed telephone and electricity accumulated in 2011 were kept unchanged at 0.9% and 4.1%, respectively, the same values considered in the July meeting, 
c) the projection for regulated prices inflation accumulated in 2011, based on individual items, according to the benchmark scenario, increased to 5%, up from 4.9% considered in the July meeting. This set of prices, according to data released by the IBGE, accounted for 29.0% of the total July IPCA, 
d) the projection for regulated prices inflation accumulated in 2012, according to the benchmark scenario, were kept unchanged at 4.4%, value considered in the July meeting. Such projection is based on endogenous determination models for regulated prices, which compute, among other factors, seasonal components, foreign exchange rate changes, market prices inflation and the IGP (General Price Index) change, and 
e) the projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, based on the 360-day swap rates, on the benchmark scenario, estimates 19 bps and -39 bps spreads in the fourth quarters of 2011 and 2012, respectively.
14. Regarding fiscal policy, projections assume the achievement of the new public sector primary surplus target, around 3.15% of GDP, without adjustments, in 2011. Moreover, a primary surplus of around 3.1% of GDP is considered for 2012 and 2013, without adjustments. 
15. The set of projections incorporated the estimated effects of the reserve requirements changes announced in December 2010. 
16. Since the last Copom meeting, the median of the expectations compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations and Special Studies Department (Gerin) for the 2011 IPCA were kept unchanged at 6.31%. For 2012, the median of inflation expectations were kept unchanged at 5.20%. Specifically for banks, asset managers and other institutions (real sector companies, brokers, consultancies and others), the medians for the 2011 IPCA changed from 6.28%, 6.38% and 6.31% to 6.30%, 6.32% and 6.30%, respectively. For 2012, the medians changed from 5.01%, 5.40% and 5.05% to 5.06%, 5.31% and 5.10%, in the same order. 
17. The benchmark scenario assumes the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$1.60/US$1.00 and the Selic rate at 12.50% p.a. during the forecast period. Under this scenario, the projection for the 2011 inflation increased relatively to the figure considered at the July Copom meeting, and it stands above the 4.50% midpoint target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). According to the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin in the period immediately prior to the Copom meeting - IPCA inflation forecast for 2011 also increased and stands above the inflation midpoint target. For 2012, the projection fell in both the benchmark and the market scenarios, positioned around the midpoint of the target in both scenarios. For 2013H1 inflation, the projected inflation fell in the benchmark and remained stable in the market scenario, positioned around the midpoint of the target in both scenarios. 
18. An alternative scenario built and analyzed from the perspective of a medium sized dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model, considers that the current deterioration in the international scenario will make an impact on the Brazilian economy equivalent to one quarter of the impact observed during the international crisis of 2008 / 2009. Moreover, it assumes that the current deterioration of the international scenario is more persistent than the one verified in 2008/2009, but less acute, without observance of extreme events. In this alternative scenario, the domestic economic activity slows down and, although there is depreciation of the exchange rate and reduction of the basic interest rate, among others, the inflation rate stands at a level below what would be observed if it were not considered the above mentioned effect of international crisis. 
19. The Copom evaluates that monetary policy should contribute to the consolidation of a favorable longer-term macroeconomic environment. In this respect, the Copom reassures that, under the inflation-targeting regime, it guides its decisions according to BCB projected inflation and based on the analysis of alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine prices dynamics. The Committee also understands that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to reduce uncertainties regarding the future behavior of headline inflation, facilitate the assessment of scenarios by the monetary authority, as well as help the process of coordination of economic agents’ expectations, particularly price setters’. Additionally, it is noteworthy that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to intensify the effects of monetary policy actions, enabling them to affect in a more long-lasting manner the dynamics of headline inflation in the future. Although the Copom recognizes that other actions of macroeconomic policy may influence the price trajectory, it reaffirms its view that it is under the responsibility of the monetary policy to remain especially vigilant to guarantee that pressures detected in shorter horizons do not spread to longer horizons. 
20. International evidence, ratified by the Brazilian experience, indicates that high inflation rates lead to the increase in risk premium, both for private and public funding, and to the shortening of planning horizons, both for households and companies. Consequently, high inflation rates reduce investment and economic growth potential, in addition to presenting regressive effects on income distribution. Moreover, high inflation rates do not originate any lasting results for economic and employment growth, on the contrary, they create permanent damage to these variables in the medium and long terms. Therefore, the strategy adopted by the Copom aims to ensure the convergence of inflation towards the targets path, which requires that deviations from the target path be promptly corrected. Such strategy takes into account the time lags in the transmission mechanism and is the most adequate to deal with the uncertainty inherent to the process of monetary policy formulation and implementation. 
21. As a consequence of the stabilization and correction of unbalances, which determined important structural changes, the inflation targeting regime maturing process stands at an advanced stage, and it reflects favorably in the dynamics of neutral interest rate and in the power of monetary policy. Evidences under this respect can be observed, among other factors, through the accomplishment of inflation targets in the last seven years, at the same time that real interest rates have reduced. Progress in the financial markets structure, the reduction of both FX and inflationary risk premia, among other factors, seem to have determined significant reduction in the neutral rate. The generation of primary surpluses consistent with the maintenance of the decreasing trend for the public debt/GDP ratio also contributed for it. From another point-of-view, some of these developments, combined to others, such as the extension of contract tenures, also suggest that the power of monetary policy in Brazil has been increasing in the last years, despite the substantial uncertainty that surrounds the calculation of non-observable variables. The Committee also considers that there are evidences that the monetary policy traction increased in the recent past and, compared to what was observed some years ago, currently inflationary pressures are contained with more efficiency by monetary policy actions. 
22. Reassessing the international scenario, the Committee considers that there has been substantial deterioration since the last meeting, reflected, for example, in generalized and significant growth projections reductions for the main economic blocks. The Committee believes that there are higher chances that the restrictions to which several mature economies are now exposed can extend over a longer than anticipated period of time. Note that in these economies, there seems to be limited scope for using monetary policy, and a scenario of fiscal restraint also prevails. Therefore, the Committee considers that the international scenario manifests disinflationary bias for the relevant horizon. 
23. For the Copom, the transmission of external developments to the Brazilian economy can be realized through many channels, among others, the reduction of total trade flows, the moderation in the investment inflows, tighter credit conditions and the worsening in consumer and business confidence. The Committee understands that the complexity surrounding the international environment will help to intensify and accelerate the ongoing moderation in domestic activity, which is already manifested, for instance, in the retreat of the growth projections for the Brazilian economy. In other words, the ongoing moderation process in the economy - a result of policy actions implemented since the end of last year - tends to be boosted by the weakness of the global economy. As a result, the balance of risks for inflation becomes more favorable. 
24. The Copom evaluates that, although ongoing moderation of domestic demand growth is observed, prospects for economic activity are still favorable. This assessment is supported by signs that, despite showing some cooling, point to the fact that the expansion of credit supply tends to persist, both for individuals and corporate, and by the fact that consumers and businessmen confidence stand at historically high levels, notwithstanding some accommodation at the margin. The Copom considers, additionally, that the dynamism of domestic activity will continue to be benefited by the labor market vigor, mirrored in historically low unemployment rates and substantial wages growth. 
25. The Copom evaluates that since the last meeting the inflation prospective scenario shows more favorable signs. In the last quarter of 2010 and in the first quarter of 2011, inflation was strongly and negatively impacted by domestic and external supply shocks. Evidences suggest that consumer prices have already incorporated the direct effects of these shocks. Also relevant were the direct effects of the atypical concentration of regulated prices adjustments in the first quarter of the year, which, in specific cases, shows signs of reversal. The Committee considers that these effects shall still impact indirectly consumer prices dynamics, among other mechanisms, through inertia. At the same time, it evaluates, as relevant, despite on a decreasing trend, the risks derived from the persistence of the mismatch between supply and demand growth rates. Moreover, it highlights the narrow idleness margin of the production factors, especially labor force, and analyzes that, in such circumstances, a very important risk stems from the possibility of concession of nominal wages increases incompatible with productivity growth and from its negative impacts over inflation dynamics. On the other hand, the Copom notes that the Nuci has retreated and it is below its long-term trend, contributing, therefore, to the opening of the output gap and to contain price pressures. At the end of last year and at the start of this year, the risks associated to commodities prices trajectory in international markets were key to the prospective scenario. However, since April these prices have shown some accommodation. 
26. The Copom foresees that the twelve-month inflation upward cycle ends this quarter. From the fourth quarter on, the main scenario indicates a downward trend for the twelve-month accumulated inflation rate, which will start to move toward the target. 
27. The Copom reaffirms that the inflation main scenario considers the materialization of its trajectories regarding fiscal variables. It bears highlighting that the generation of primary surpluses in line with the hypotheses considered for inflation projections, in addition to contributing to reduce the mismatches between supply and demand growth rates, will strengthen the trend in the reduction of the public debt-to-GDP ratio. It bears highlighting that, since the beginning of this year, important decisions have been taken and implemented, which reinforce the view that a fiscal consolidation process is underway. Regarding this aspect, according the evaluation of the Committee, the recent revision of the fiscal policy scenario makes the balance of risks for inflation more favorable. 
28. The Copom highlights that its main scenario for inflation also considers moderation in credit expansion, for which macroprudential and conventional monetary policy actions recently adopted contribute. Still about this market, the Committee considers opportune the introduction of initiatives with the aim of moderating the concession of subsidies regarding credit operations. 
29. In short, the Copom recognizes an economic environment in which an increasing and above-than-usual uncertainty level prevails, and identifies decreasing risks to the materialization of a scenario where inflation timely converges to the midpoint target. In other words, the Committee evaluates that since the last meeting, the inflation prospective scenario has shown more favorable signs. 
30. The Copom unanimously recognizes that the macroeconomic environment has changed substantially since its last meeting in such a way that a reassessment and possibly a reverse in the recent process of the basic interest rate hike are justified. However, two members of the Committee have assessed that the current situation does not yet offer all the necessary conditions to begin this movement immediately. 
31. In this context, the Copom decided to decrease the Selic target to 12.00%, without bias, by five votes in favor of the monetary policy action, and by two votes for the maintenance of the Selic rate at 12.50%. 
32. Domestic demand is still robust, largely due to the effects of stimulus factors, such as income growth and credit expansion. However, recent initiatives reinforce a scenario for restrained public sector expenditures. Also seen as important curbing factors to domestic demand are the substantial deterioration of the international scenario and the macroprudential actions implemented. These elements and the quasi fiscal developments are an important part of the context in which future monetary policy decisions will be taken, aiming to ensure the timely convergence of inflation to the targets path. 
33. The Monetary Policy Committee believes that by promptly mitigating the effects from a more restrictive global environment, moderate adjustments in the level of the basic rate are consistent with the scenario of inflation convergence to the target in 2012. 