1. Monthly inflation measured by the IPCA reached 0.50% in December, after recording 0.52% in November, which resulted in the third consecutive retreat of inflation accumulated in twelve months. Inflation in 2011 stood at 6.50% (5.91% in 2010). Therefore, for the eighth consecutive year, inflation stood within the tolerance range established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). Market prices inflation stood at 6.63% in 2011, down from 7.09% in 2010, while regulated prices inflation reached 6.20% (3.13% in 2010). Regarding market prices, it bears highlighting that tradable goods inflation reached 4.41%, while inflation related to non-tradable goods increased 8.59%, compared to 6.87% and 7.28% in 2010, respectively. Specifically on services, inflation in this segment fell in December to 0.51%, after rising 0.59% in November, but ended 2011 at a high level, 9.01% (7.62% in 2010). In short, the set of available information suggests a declining trend of inflation on a twelve-month accumulated basis, but some persistence of the high price hikes observed in 2011, which partially reflects the fact that services inflation remains at high levels. 
2. Underlying inflation measures calculated by the BCB, in general, performed similarly to the observed in headline inflation, with slight decrease in the average of monthly changes, as well as in the average of twelve-month inflation through December 2011. The smoothed trimmed means IPCA core inflation moved from 0.59% in October to 0.55% in November and 0.58% in December, while the non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation changed from 0.44% to 0.42% and 0.39% in the same period. Similarly, the double weight core inflation, after registering 0.50% in October, increased to 0.53% in November and 0.54% in December. At the same time, core inflation by exclusion, which excludes ten household food and fuels items, declined from 0.47% in October and November to 0.41% in December, while the core inflation by exclusion of regulated prices and household food increased from 0.43% in October to 0.45% in November and 0.49% in December. Therefore, the average change of these five core measures changed from 0.49% in October to 0.48% in November and December. In the twelve months through December, the average change of the five core measures registered 6.59%, compared to 6.72% in November and to 6.82% in October. 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) registered 0.16% deflation in December, after increasing 0.43% in November and 0.40% in October. The decline in the index in December was driven by significant reduction in producer prices during the month. Thus, the IGP-DI accumulated inflation of 5.00% in 2011, after rising 11.30% in 2010. The main component of the indicator, the Wholesale Price Index (IPA), changed 4.12% in 2011, reflecting increases of 4.46% in the industrial IPA and 3.15% in the agricultural IPA. According to the breakdown by stage of production, there were increases in the prices of raw materials (5.49%), intermediate goods (3.27%) and final goods (3.88%). Inflation measured by Consumer Price Index (CPI), another component of the IGP-DI, stood at 6.36% in 2011, slightly above the 6.24% recorded in 2010. The Civil Construction National Index (INCC), component with the lowest weight in the IGP-DI, changed 7.49%. On its turn, the Producer/Manufacturing Industry Price Index (IPP/IT), calculated by the IBGE, was unchanged in November, after increasing 0.76% in October. In twelve months, this index changed from 4.68% in October to 3.20% in November. In general, the recent evolution of these indices indicates the reduction of the pressures stemming from wholesale prices over consumer prices. 
4. The Brazilian economy grew 2.1% in the third quarter of 2011, compared to the same quarter last year, after growing 4.2% in the first quarter and 3.3% in the second quarter, according to the same comparison basis. According to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, GDP remained unchanged in the third quarter, quarter-on-quarter, after expanding by 0.8% in the first and 0.7% in the second quarters. Thus, the accumulated rate of growth in four quarters fell from 4.9% to 3.7%, which confirms that the Brazilian economy is in a cycle of growth that presents a pace more in line with rates assessed as sustainable in the long run. The moderation in the pace of growth was noticeable in all components of domestic demand, and resulted, in part, from the policy actions implemented since the end of 2010, intensified by the deterioration of the global economic scenario since the third quarter of last year. 
5. The Economic Activity Index of the BCB (IBC-Br) incorporates estimates for the monthly production of the three sectors of the economy, as well as for taxes on products, and constitutes, therefore, an important coincident indicator of economic activity. Considering seasonally adjusted data, the IBC-Br increased by 1.1% in November, after contractions of 0.5% in October and 0.1% in September. Thus, the rate of quarterly change between September and November stood at -0.3%. On the other hand, for the quarter ended in November 2010, growth was 0.9%. In twelve months, the growth rate, which has been slowing since November 2010, dropped from 3.5% in October to 3.0% in November. The Services Confidence Index (ICS), from FGV, continued to signal a moderate slowdown in the sector. In December, the index decreased 0.7% after falling 0.6% in November. Thus, the indicator at the end of 2011 stood 3.2% below the level observed at the end of 2010.
6. The Indicators of Credit Conditions, built based on consultation carried out quarterly by the BCB with financial institutions representing every segment of the credit market, signal, in general, more restrictive conditions for the quarter from January to March 2012. Regarding credit for large companies, the analysis suggests more restrictive scenario. For micro, small and medium companies, the indicators show a scenario similar to the observed in the previous quarter, with supply moderately more restrictive and demand moderately stronger, but at levels below those observed the third quarter of 2011. Regarding credit to consumption, the outlook for this quarter basically points to stability in the percentage of credit approval, quarter-on-quarter. For housing loans, despite the more selective supply by the financial institutions, the expectation of increasing demand induces a scenario with the approval of new lines, in this quarter, moderately above than the figures observed in the previous quarter. 
7. Industrial activity increased by 0.3% in November, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, after falling 0.7% in October and 1.9% in September. Production increased in 18 of the 27 branches of activity in November, with the greatest expansion occurring in the machinery and equipment sector (4.0%). According to the quarterly moving average, industrial production declined 0.8% between September and November, after falling 0.9% in the period between August and October. Year-over-year, production decreased 2.5% in November, while on a twelve-month accumulated basis, it expanded by 0.6%. Compared to December 2008, month with the lowest output level during the 2008/09 crisis, the accumulated growth until September 2011 reached 22.0%. According to data from the National Industry Confederation (CNI), earnings in the manufacturing industry recorded 4.6% real growth in November, year-over-year, while the number of hours worked decreased 2.5%. 
8. Among the industry use categories, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, in November there were increases of 1.6% in the production of capital goods, 0.4% in the production of intermediate goods and 2.2% in the production of non-durable and semi-durable consumer goods. Meanwhile, the production of durable consumer goods declined 0.9%. In twelve months through November, intermediate goods output increased 0.5%, while the production of durable consumer goods and non-durable and semi-durable consumer goods output fell by 1.2% and 0.1%, respectively. According to the same comparison basis, capital goods industry recorded the highest growth activity level among use categories, expanding by 3.8%, reflecting the dynamism of investments. 
9. The unemployment rate in the six metropolitan regions covered by the IBGE Monthly Labor Survey (PME), according to observed data, reached 5.2% in November, compared to 5.7% registered in November 2010, after reaching 5.8% in October. After recording 9.0% in March 2009, the observed unemployment rate reduced significantly and reached a record low in October, since the start of the series in March 2002. The unemployment rate seasonally adjusted by the BCB decreased from 6.0% in October to 5.6% in November. At the same time, the occupation level followed upward trend observed over the last years and reached new record high in November (54.3%). Data released by the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE), however, indicate slowdown in the creation of new jobs. In November, 42.7 thousand formal jobs were created (compared to 138.2 thousand jobs created in November 2010), expanding the number of formal jobs in four of the eight sectors of economic activity. Services and trade were the sectors that mostly contributed for formal employment increase in the month. According to PME, real average earnings remained stable in November, growing by 0.7% in twelve months. As a consequence, real payroll, considering real average earnings in the six metropolitan regions, expanded 2.6% in November, year-over-year. In short, evidences indicate that although the labor market remains robust, there are signs of moderation at the margin. 
10. According to the retail monthly survey (PMC) from IBGE, expanded retail sales increased 3.2% in November, year-over-year, after recording 1.6% growth in October and 4.7% in September, according to the same comparison basis. According to the seasonally adjusted series, expanded retail sales increased by 1.5% in November, month-on-month, after a fall of 0.3% in October and increase of 0.7% in September. As a consequence, the twelve-month accumulated growth rate reached 7.7% in November, down from 8.8% in October and 9.6% in September. According to this comparison basis, the volume of sales in all ten sectors surveyed expanded, with highlights for equipment and supplies for office, computer and communication (18.6%) and furniture and appliances (16.9%). Since October, the FGV, in partnership with the BCB has also released the Trade Confidence Index (ICOM). This indicator provides important additional information, as it portrays the current state and signals the evolution of commercial activity in a more timely manner. The index continued to indicate slowdown in the sector in December, similarly to what occurred in the two previous months. In the upcoming months, the retail sales trajectory will continue to be influenced by governmental transfers, by the pace of real payroll growth, by the consumer confidence level and by moderate credit expansion. 
11. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry, calculated by the FGV, without seasonal adjustment, moved from 84.5% in November to 84.1% in December. Thus, capacity utilization stood 1.6 p.p. and 1.2 p.p. lower than the levels observed in November and December 2010, respectively. According to the seasonally adjusted monthly series calculated by the FGV, the Nuci stood at 83.4% in December, reaching 3.3 p.p. below the record high recorded in June 2008. Capacity utilization is higher in the sectors of construction inputs (88.6%) and intermediate goods (83.8%). In the sector of capital goods, the Nuci stood at 83.3%, while in the sector of consumer goods, it stood at 82.9%. According to the Confederation of National Industry (CNI) data, seasonally adjusted by the BCB, the Nuci stood at 81.4% in November, close to the percentage observed in October (81.5%). The rates of installed capacity utilization have been retreating, reflecting, in part, the reduction in the pace of production growth and the maturity of investments. In fact, the absorption of capital goods grew 6.4% in the last twelve months through November (7.5% until October), while the production of construction inputs increased 4.4% (4.7 % until October). 
12. The trade balance surplus on a twelve-month accumulated basis decreased from US$ 31.3 billion in November to US$ 29.8 billion in December. This result stemmed from US$256.0 billion in exports and US$226.2 billion in imports, equivalent to 26.8% and 24.5% changes, respectively, in the last twelve months through December. The current account deficit accumulated in twelve months increased from US$47.3 billion in October to US$ 49.3 billion in November, equivalent to 2.0% of GDP. On its turn, foreign direct investment reached US$75.4 billion in twelve months through November, equivalent to 3.1% of GDP, exceeding the needs for external funding. 
13. Global economy continues to face a period of uncertainty above the usual, with deterioration in activity prospects and the possibility of occurrence of extreme events. Since the last meeting, specific signs of improvement in the United States (US), advances in European fiscal governance and provision of liquidity by the European Central Bank (ECB) were partly offset by stronger signs of deterioration in some mature economies. The risks to global financial stability remain high, among others, due to exposure of international banks to sovereign debt of countries with fiscal imbalances, and high levels of risk aversion persist, despite a slight decrease at the margin. From another perspective, high persistent unemployment rates, coupled with the need for fiscal adjustments, as well as limited scope for monetary policy actions and political uncertainty, have contributed for the reduction of growth projections in mature countries or even of their potential growth, indicating wider and more volatile economic cycle. In fact, the composite leading indicator released by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), for November, reinforced the signs of activity inflection in all main economies, with less favorable prospects for this and the upcoming semesters. In specific cases, the probability of recession increased, especially in the Euro Area. Disaggregated indicators of the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) for December, related to activity in industry and in the services sector are, in general, consistent with this scenario, despite the improvement at the margin in December. There has also been continued reduction in growth projections for important emerging economies. Regarding monetary policy, mature economies have continued to adopt accommodative monetary stances and, in specific cases, non-conventional monetary policy initiatives. Regarding inflation, the core measures have persisted at moderate levels in the US and in the Euro Area. In emerging economies, in general, monetary policy bias is expansionist. 
14. The price of Brent oil barrel has shown volatility, but remained above US$100. This price level is consistent with a scenario of moderation in global demand, combined with higher political instability in some producer countries and with lags in the process of production resumption. It bears highlighting that the geopolitical complexity that involves the oil sector tends to heighten the volatile behavior of prices, which is also a reflex of the low predictability of some global demand components and of the dependency of supply growth on long term risky investment projects. Regarding the other commodities, it is noteworthy the swing in agricultural international prices, with small reduction when measured by the Commodity Research Bureau (CRB), and slight elevation in the prices of metals. The food price index, calculated by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), which considers 55 items, accumulates a fall of 11.3% until December, since the peak observed in February 2011. In the recent past, the high volatility observed in the prices of commodities was strongly impacted by the abundant global liquidity, in a context where financial markets adjust to new expectations of growth and to volatility in FX markets. 
15. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to the new set of available information. The scenario considered in the simulations was based on the following assumptions: 
a) the projected adjustment for gasoline and bottled gas prices, for 2012, remained at 0%, the same value considered at the November meeting, 
b) the projected adjustments for fixed telephone and electricity, for 2012, were maintained at 1.5% and 2.3%, respectively, 
c) the projection for regulated prices inflation accumulated in 2012, based on individual items, according to the benchmark scenario, was maintained at 4.0%, the same value considered at the November meeting, 
d) the projection for regulated prices inflation accumulated in 2013, according to the benchmark scenario, increased to 4.6%, up from 4.5%, the value considered at the November Copom meeting. Such projection is based on endogenous determination models for regulated prices, which compute, among other factors, seasonal components, foreign exchange rate changes, market prices inflation and the IGP (General Price Index) change, and 
e) the projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, based on the 360-day swap rates, on the benchmark scenario, estimates -22 bps and 82 bps spreads in the fourth quarters of 2012 and 2013, respectively. 
16. Regarding fiscal policy, projections assume the achievement of the public sector primary surplus target (R$139.8 billion), around 3.10% of GDP, without adjustments, in 2012. Moreover, a primary surplus of around 3.10% of GDP is considered for 2013, without adjustments. 
17. The set of projections incorporated the estimated effects of the change in the IPCA weighting structure, which will take place in January 2012. 
18. The projections were developed and analyzed from the perspective of models that identify in a broader manner the transmission mechanisms of external developments to the Brazilian economy – among others, trade, imports prices and external volatility channels. As a working hypothesis, the main scenario considers that the current deterioration in the international scenario will have an impact on the Brazilian economy equivalent to one fourth of the impact observed during the 2008/2009 international crisis. 
19. Since the last Copom meeting, the median of the expectations compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations and Special Studies Department (Gerin) for the 2012 IPCA decreased from 5.56% to 5.30%. For 2013, the median of inflation expectations stands at 5.00%. Specifically for banks, asset managers and other institutions (real sector companies, brokers, consultancies and others), the medians of expectations for the 2012 IPCA changed from 5.58%, 5.57% and 5.53% to 5.29%, 5.29% and 5.30%, respectively. For 2013, the medians stand at 4.94%, 5.00% and 4.80%, in the same order. 
20. The benchmark scenario assumes the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$1.80/US$1.00 and the Selic rate at 11.00% p.a. during the forecast period. Under this scenario, the projection for the 2012 inflation decreased relative to the figure considered at the November Copom meeting, and it stands around the 4.50% midpoint target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). According to the market scenario, which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin in the period immediately prior to the Copom meeting, IPCA inflation forecast for 2012 remained relatively stable, above the midpoint inflation target. For 2013, the inflation projection stands around the midpoint of the target in the benchmark scenario and above, in the market scenario. 
21. The Copom evaluates that monetary policy should contribute to the consolidation of a favorable longer-term macroeconomic environment. In this respect, the Copom reassures that, under the inflation targeting regime, it guides its decisions according to BCB projected inflation and based on the analysis of alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine prices dynamics. The Committee also understands that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to reduce uncertainties regarding the future behavior of headline inflation, facilitate the assessment of scenarios by the monetary authority, as well as help the process of coordination of economic agents’ expectations, particularly price setters’. Additionally, it is noteworthy that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to intensify the effects of monetary policy actions, enabling them to affect in a more long-lasting manner the dynamics of headline inflation in the future. Although the Copom recognizes that other actions of macroeconomic policy may influence the price trajectory, it reaffirms its view that it is particularly under the responsibility of the monetary policy to remain especially vigilant to guarantee that pressures detected in shorter horizons do not spread to longer horizons. 
22. International evidence, ratified by the Brazilian experience, indicates that high inflation rates lead to the increase in risk premia, both for private and public funding, and to the shortening of planning horizons, both for households and companies. Consequently, high inflation rates reduce investment and economic growth potential, in addition to presenting regressive effects on income distribution. In other words, high inflation rates do not originate any lasting results for economic and employment growth, on the contrary, they create permanent damage to these variables in the medium and long terms. Therefore, the strategy adopted by the Copom aims to ensure the convergence of inflation towards the targets path, which requires that possible deviations from the target path be promptly corrected. Such strategy takes into account the time lags in the transmission mechanism and is the most adequate to deal with the uncertainty inherent to the process of monetary policy formulation and implementation. 
23. The Copom considers that, since the last meeting, the risks to global financial stability have remained high and the process of deterioration of the international scenario has continued, which, already at that time, faced generalized and significant reduction in growth projections for the main economic blocks. The Committee understands that the chances that the restrictions to which several mature economies are now exposed extend for a period longer than previously anticipated remain high. It also notes that, in these economies, there seems to be limited scope for using monetary policy, and a scenario of fiscal restraint also prevails. In addition, for the main emerging economies, despite the resilience of domestic demand, the pace of activity has moderated, in part, as a consequence of policy actions and the weakening of external demand, through the external trade channel. Therefore, the Committee considers that the international scenario shows disinflationary bias for the relevant horizon. 
24. For the Copom, there are cumulative evidences supporting the view that the transmission of external developments to the Brazilian economy materializes through several channels, among others, the reduction of total trade, the moderation in investment flows, tighter credit conditions and the worsening in consumer and businessmen confidence. The Committee understands that the effects of the complexity surrounding the international environment add up to those stemming from the moderation of domestic activity, which is mirrored, for instance, in the retreat of growth projections for the Brazilian economy this year and in the upcoming year. In other words, the moderation process of the Brazilian economy was intensified by the weakness of the global economy. 
25. The Copom evaluates that, although ongoing moderation of domestic demand growth is observed, prospects for economic activity are favorable. This assessment is supported by signs that, despite showing some cooling, point to the fact that the expansion of credit supply tends to persist, both for individuals and corporate, and by the fact that consumers’ confidence, notwithstanding the accommodation at the margin, stands at historically high levels. The Copom considers, additionally, that the domestic activity will continue to be benefited by the public transfers, as well as by the labor market vigor, mirrored in historically low unemployment rates and in wages growth, despite some accommodation at the margin.
26. The Copom reaffirms its view that inflation accumulated in twelve months, which started to retreat in the last quarter, tends to continue the decline and, therefore, to move towards the targets path. The Committee evaluates that, by itself, the reversion in the inflation trend will contribute to improve the expectations of economic agents, especially those of the price setters, about the dynamics of inflation in the upcoming quarters. Additionally, the Committee believes that this improvement in the perception will be boosted by the ongoing process of reassessment of the economic activity pace, both domestic and external, in this and in the upcoming semesters. 
27. The Copom notes that the main inflation scenario considers the materialization of the assumed trajectories regarding fiscal variables. It bears highlighting that the generation of primary surpluses in line with the hypotheses considered for inflation projections, in addition to contributing to reduce the mismatches between supply and demand growth rates, will strengthen the trend of the public debt-to-GDP ratio reduction. 
28. The Copom highlights that its main scenario also considers moderation in credit market expansion. Still about the credit market, the Committee considers opportune the adoption of initiatives with the aim of moderating the concession of subsidies through credit operations. 
29. The Copom evaluates as decreasing the risks stemming from the persistence of the mismatch, in specific segments, between supply and demand growth rates. However, it highlights the narrow idleness margin in the labor market, despite the signs of moderation in this market, and considers that, under such circumstances, an important risk stems from the possibility of concession of wages increases incompatible with productivity growth and from its negative impacts over inflation dynamics. On the other hand, the Copom notes that the level of installed capacity utilization has retreated and is below the long-term trend, that is, it is contributing to the opening of the output gap and to contain prices pressures. The Committee also observes that, in general, commodities prices in international markets have shown benign behavior. 
30. In short, the Copom recognizes an economic environment in which a much above-than-usual uncertainty level prevails, and evaluates that since the last meeting, the inflation prospective scenario has accumulated favorable signs. The Copom notes that, according to the main scenario, the inflation rate stands around the target in 2012, and identifies decreasing risks to the materialization of a scenario in which inflation timely converges to the midpoint target. 
31. In this context, continuing the process of monetary conditions adjustment, the Copom unanimously decided to decrease the Selic target to 10.50%, without bias. 
32. The Copom evaluates that domestic demand is still robust, especially household consumption, largely due to the effects of stimulus factors, such as income growth and credit expansion. This scenario tends to prevail in this and in the upcoming quarters, when domestic demand will be impacted by the effects of the monetary policy actions recently implemented, which, in short, are lagged and cumulative. On the other hand, the Committee considers that recent initiatives reinforce a scenario for restrained public sector expenditures. Another important factor to curb aggregate demand is the substantial and persistent deterioration in the international scenario. These elements and the quasi fiscal developments are an important part of the context in which future monetary policy decisions will be taken, aiming to ensure the timely convergence of inflation to the targets path. 
33. The Copom understands that the Brazilian economy has experienced significant structural changes, which determined retreat in the interest rates in general, and, in particular, in the neutral rate. Among the factors that support this view, it bears highlighting the reduction of risk premia, a direct consequence of the accomplishment of the inflation target for the eighth consecutive year, of the macroeconomic stability and of institutional improvements. Moreover, the process of interest rates reduction was favored by changes in the structure of financial and capital markets, by the credit market deepening, as well as by the generation of primary surpluses consistent with the maintenance of decreasing trend for the public debt-to-GDP ratio. For the Committee, all these changes are characterized by a high degree of persistence – although, due to the economic cycles themselves, specific and temporary reversions may occur – and contribute for the Brazilian economy to currently present solid indicators of solvency and liquidity. 
34. The Copom also considers that the increase in the supply of external savings and the reduction of its funding cost have contributed for the reduction of the domestic interest rates, including the neutral rate, which are largely, according to the Committee’s assessment, permanent developments. 
35. In light of the above mentioned, and also considering that the deceleration of the Brazilian economy in the second semester of last year was deeper than anticipated, and that recent events indicate postponement of a definitive solution for the European financial crisis, at the present moment, the Copom attributes high probability for the materialization of a scenario that considers the decrease of the Selic target to one-digit levels. 