1. Monthly inflation measured by the IPCA reached 0.56% in January, after recording 0.50% in December, resulting in the fourth consecutive retreat of twelve-month trailing inflation, which reduced from 6.50% in December to 6.22% in January. Market prices inflation stood at 6.42% in the twelve months through January, down from 7.17% until January 2011, while regulated prices inflation reached 5.71% (3.24% in the same period of last year). Regarding market prices, it bears highlighting that tradable goods inflation reached 3.97% in the twelve months through January, while inflation related to non-tradable goods increased 8.62%, compared to 6.61% and 7.65% in the same period of 2011, respectively. Specifically on services, inflation in this segment reached 1.05% in January, after rising 0.51% in December, totaling 9.20% in the twelve months through January (7.89% in January 2011). In short, the set of available information suggests a declining trend of inflation on a twelve-month accumulated basis, despite some persistence, which, in part, reflects the fact that services inflation still remains at high levels. 
2. Underlying inflation measures calculated by the BCB, in general, performed similarly to headline inflation. While the average of monthly changes slightly increased in January, the average of twelve-month inflation fell for the fourth consecutive month. The smoothed trimmed means IPCA core inflation moved from 0.55% in November to 0.58% in December and 0.47% in January, while the non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation changed from 0.42% to 0.39% and 0.36% in the same period. Similarly, the double weight core inflation, after registering 0.53% in November, increased to 0.54% in December and 0.59% in January. At the same time, core inflation by exclusion, which excludes ten household food and fuels items, declined from 0.47% in November to 0.41% in December, before moving to 0.59% in January, while the core inflation by exclusion of regulated prices and household food increased from 0.45% in November to 0.49% in December and 0.57% in January. Therefore, the average change of these five core measures changed from 0.48% in November and December to 0.52% in January. In the twelve months through January, the average change of the five core measures declined from 6.72% in November to 6.59% in December and 6.41% in January. 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) increased 0.07% in February, after increasing 0.30% in January and decreasing 0.16% in December. Thus, the IGP-DI accumulated inflation of 3.38% in the twelve months through February, 7.74 percentage points (p.p.) below that registered in February 2011. This was the fourteenth consecutive decrease of the inflation in twelve months. The main component of the indicator, the Wholesale Price Index (IPA), changed 1.85% in the twelve months through February, reflecting an increase of 2.65% in the industrial IPA and a decrease of 0.28% in the agricultural IPA. According to the breakdown by stage of production, in the same period, there was decrease in the price of raw materials (0.25%) and increases in intermediate goods (2.31%) and final goods (3.22%). Inflation measured by Consumer Price Index (CPI), another component of the IGP-DI, stood at 5.62% in the twelve months through February, below the 6.02% recorded in February 2011. The Civil Construction National Index (INCC), component with the lowest weight in the IGP-DI, changed 8.02%. On its turn, the Producer/Manufacturing Industry Price Index (IPP/IT), calculated by the IBGE, decreased 0.46% in January, after deflation of 0.17% in December. In twelve months, this index changed from 2.60% in December to 1.72% in January. In general, the recent evolution of these indices signals reduction of the pressures stemming from wholesale prices over consumer prices. 
4. The Brazilian economy grew 2.7% in 2011, after growing 7.5% last year and contracting 0.3% in 2009. In 2011, the value added by the agricultural sector expanded 3.9%, the industry grew by 1.6%, and the service sector, 2.7%. On the demand side, household consumption grew by 4.1% (compared to 6.9% in 2010), government consumption increased by 1.9% (4.2% in 2010), and investments, 4.7% (21.3% in 2010). The external sector had net contribution of -0.7 p.p. in 2011 (-2.7 p.p. in 2010). According to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, GDP resumed growth in the fourth quarter, quarter-on-quarter, recording 0.3%, after falling 0.1% in the third quarter and expanding by 0.5% in the second quarter. Growth resumption in the fourth quarter was noticeable in all components of domestic demand, and is compatible with the internal and external equilibrium, and consistent with the scenario of convergence of inflation to the target in 2012. 
5. The Economic Activity Index of the BCB (IBC-Br) incorporates estimates for the monthly production of the three sectors of the economy, as well as for taxes on products, and constitutes, therefore, an important coincident indicator of economic activity. Considering seasonally adjusted data, the IBC-Br increased by 0.6% in December, after expansion of 1.3% in November and contraction of 0.6% in October. Thus, the indicator increased 0.3% in the last quarter of 2011, compared to the previous quarter, and 1.0% compared to the quarter ended in December 2010. In twelve months, the growth rate, which has been slowing since November 2010, retreated from 3.0% in November 2011 to 2.7% in December. The Consumer Confidence Index (ICC), from Getúlio Vargas Foundation (FGV), recorded a rise in February. In the same way, the Services Confidence Index (ICS) increased in February, after six consecutive declines. 
6. Industrial activity decreased by 2.1% in January, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, after increasing 0.5% in December and 0.1% in November. Production decreased in 14 out of the 27 branches of activity in January, with the largest decrease occurring in the automotive vehicles sector (-30.7%). According to the quarterly moving average, industrial production declined 0.5% between November and January, after recording stability in the period between October and December. Year-over-year, production decreased 3.4% in January, while on a twelve-month accumulated basis, it decreased by 0.2%. Compared to December 2008, month with the lowest output level during the 2008/09 crisis, the accumulated growth until January 2012 reached 19.6%. According to data from the National Industry Confederation (CNI), revenues in the manufacturing industry recorded 3.8% real growth in December, year-over-year, while the number of hours worked decreased 0.7%. Therefore, real revenues and the number of hours worked grew, respectively, 5.1% and 0.9% in 2011. 
7. Among the industry use categories, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, in January the production of durable consumer goods decreased 1.9%, while the production of non-durable and semi-durable consumer goods increased by 0.7%. The production of intermediate goods and capital goods decreased by 2.9% and 16.0%, respectively, strongly influenced by the smaller production of transport equipment. In twelve months through January, the production of durable consumer goods decreased 3.0%, while the production of non-durable and semi-durable consumer goods and intermediate goods fell by 0.2% and 0.1%, respectively. According to the same comparison basis, capital goods industry was the only one growing among use categories, expanding by 1.7%. 
8. The unemployment rate in the six metropolitan regions covered by the IBGE Monthly Labor Survey (PME), according to observed data, reached 5.5% in January, after reaching 4.7% in December. The January rate was 0.6 p.p. below the rate recorded in the same month last year. After recording 9.0% in March 2009, the observed unemployment rate reduced significantly and reached a record low in December, since the start of the series in March 2002. The unemployment rate seasonally adjusted by the BCB increased from 5.5% in December to 5.6% in January. In twelve months, there were increases of 2.0% in the occupation level and 1.4% in the economically active population. Data released by the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE), however, indicate slowdown in the creation of new jobs. In January, 118.9 thousand formal jobs were created (compared to 152.1 thousand jobs created in January 2011), expanding the number of formal jobs in six out of the eight sectors of economic activity. Services and civil construction were the sectors that mostly contributed for formal employment increase in the month. According to PME, real average earnings increased 0.7% in January, growing by 2.7% in twelve months. As a consequence, real payroll, considering real average earnings in the six metropolitan regions, expanded 4.8% in January, year-over-year. In short, evidences indicate that although the labor market remains robust, there are some signs of moderation at the margin. 
9. According to the retail monthly survey (PMC) from IBGE, expanded retail sales increased 4.3% in December, year-over-year, after recording 3.2% growth in November and 1.6% in October, according to the same comparison basis. According to the seasonally adjusted series, expanded retail sales increased by 1.6% both in November and December, month-on-month, after a fall of 0.3% in October. Thus, the volume of sales increased 6.6% in 2011. In fact, the volume of sales in all ten sectors surveyed expanded, with highlights for equipment and supplies for office, computer and communication (19.6%) and furniture and appliances (16.6%). Since October, the FGV, in partnership with the BCB, has released the Trade Confidence Index (ICOM). This indicator provides important additional information, as it portrays the current state and signals the evolution of commercial activity in a more timely manner. The index continued to indicate slowdown in the sector in February, similarly to what occurred in the four previous months. In the upcoming months, the retail sales trajectory will continue to be influenced by governmental transfers, by the pace of real payroll growth, by the consumer confidence level and by moderate credit expansion. 
10. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry, calculated by the FGV, without seasonal adjustment, moved from 82.1% in January to 82.9% in February. Thus, capacity utilization stood 1.0 p.p. and 0.8 p.p. lower than the levels observed in January and February 2011, respectively. According to the seasonally adjusted monthly series calculated by the FGV, the Nuci stood at 83.7% in February, reaching 3.0 p.p. below the record high recorded in June 2008. Capacity utilization is more significant in the sectors of construction inputs (87.6%) and intermediate goods (84.1%). In the sector of capital goods, the Nuci stood at 83.8%, while in the sector of consumer goods, it stood at 81.6%. The difference between the proportion of companies that reported excess inventories and those which reported insufficient inventories fell in February, similarly to what occurred in January. According to the Confederation of National Industry (CNI) data, seasonally adjusted by the BCB, the Nuci stood at 81.6% in December, compared to 81.4% in November. The recent process of retreat in the rates of installed capacity utilization reflected, in part, the reduction in the pace of production growth and the maturity of investments. In fact, the absorption of capital goods grew 5.8% in the last twelve months through December (6.5% until November), while the production of construction inputs increased 4.0% (4.4 % until November). 
11. The trade balance surplus on a twelve-month accumulated basis increased from US$28.1 billion in January to US$28.6 billion in February. This result stemmed from US$258.3 billion in exports and US$229.6 billion in imports, equivalent to 22.8% and 21.6% changes, respectively, in the last twelve months through February. The current account deficit accumulated in twelve months increased from US$52.6 billion in December to US$54.1 billion in January 2012, equivalent to 2.17% of GDP. On its turn, foreign direct investment reached US$69.1 billion in twelve months through January, equivalent to 2.78% of GDP. 
12. Global economy faces a period of above-than-usual uncertainty, still showing deteriorated prospects for activity, despite some improvement, at the margin, and lower level of risk aversion. Since the last meeting, a more positive perception about the activity in the United States (US) has consolidated, but risks, such as the recent increase in oil prices and the prospect of fiscal constraint persist. The provision of additional liquidity by the European Central Bank (ECB) seems to have reduced, in the short term, the probability of extreme banking events, but the risks to global financial stability remain high, among others, due to international banks exposure to sovereign debts of countries with fiscal imbalances - as reflected in still high, despite decreasing, price levels for credit default swaps (CDS) and revision of ratings given to several mature economies by credit rating agencies. High persistent unemployment rates, coupled with the need for fiscal adjustments, the limited scope for anticyclical policy actions and the political uncertainty, have contributed, in general, for the reduction of growth projections in mature countries or even of their potential growth, indicating a wider and more volatile economic cycle. In fact, the composite leading indicator released by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), for December, reinforced signs of activity recovery in the US, but showed increase in the probability of recession in the Euro Area. Disaggregated indicators of the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) for February, related to activity in industry, point to a slightly more benign global scenario and asymmetry among countries. Regarding monetary policy, mature economies have continued to adopt accommodative monetary stances, complemented by non-conventional monetary policy initiatives by the ECB, the Bank of England (BoE) and Bank of Japan (BoJ). Regarding inflation, the core measures have persisted at moderate levels in the US and in the Euro Area. In emerging economies, in general, monetary policy bias is expansionist. 
13. The price of Brent oil barrel remained volatile and breached the US$120 level, reflecting, in part, greater political instability in some important producing countries and lags in the process of production resumption. It bears highlighting that the geopolitical complexity that involves the oil sector tends to heighten the volatile behavior of prices, which is also a reflex of the low predictability of some global demand components and of the dependency of supply growth on long term risky investment projects. Regarding the other commodities, it is noteworthy the upward movement for agricultural and metal international prices since the last Copom meeting, with respective increases of 3.8% and 1.8% when measured by the Commodity Research Bureau (CRB). Compared to the peak recorded in April 2011, the cumulative decline in both categories stands at 17.7% and 13.6%, respectively. The food price index, calculated by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), which considers 55 items, accumulated a fall of 9.9% until January, since the peak observed in February 2011, with a monthly increase of 1.9% in January. In the recent past, the high volatility observed for the commodities prices was strongly impacted by the abundant global liquidity, in a context where financial markets adjust to new expectations for growth and volatility in FX markets. Prospectively, it is plausible to affirm that the announcement by Chinese authorities of reduced growth targets tends to generate some impact on commodities prices. 
14. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to the new set of available information. The scenario considered in the simulations was based on the following assumptions: 
a) the projected adjustment for gasoline and bottled gas prices, for 2012, were maintained at 0%, the same value considered at the January meeting, 
b) the projected adjustments for fixed telephone and electricity, for 2012, were maintained at 1.5% and 2.3%, respectively, 
c) the projection for regulated prices inflation accumulated in 2012, based on individual items, according to the benchmark scenario, was maintained at 4.0%, the same value considered at the January meeting, 
d) the projection for regulated prices inflation accumulated in 2013, according to the benchmark scenario, decreased to 4.5%, down from 4.6% considered at the January Copom meeting. Such projection is based on endogenous determination models for regulated prices, which compute, among other factors, seasonal components, foreign exchange rate changes, market prices inflation and the IGP (General Price Index) change, and 
e) the projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, based on the 360-day swap rates, on the benchmark scenario, estimates -7 bps and 83 bps spreads in the fourth quarters of 2012 and 2013, respectively. 
15. Regarding fiscal policy, projections assume the achievement in 2012 of the public sector primary surplus target (R$139.8 billion), around 3.10% of GDP, without adjustments. Moreover, a primary surplus of around 3.10% of GDP is considered for 2013, without adjustments. 
16. The set of projections incorporated the estimated effects of the change in the IPCA weighting structure, which will take place in January 2012. 
17. The projections were developed and analyzed from the perspective of models that identify in a broader manner the transmission mechanisms of external developments to the Brazilian economy – among others, trade, imports prices and external volatility channels. As a working hypothesis, the main scenario considers that the current deterioration in the international scenario will have an impact on the Brazilian economy equivalent to one fourth of the impact observed during the 2008/2009 international crisis. Part of this estimated impact is already being observed in the most recent economic activity indicators. 
18. Since the last Copom meeting, the median of the expectations compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations and Special Studies Department (Gerin) for the 2012 IPCA decreased to 5.24% from 5.30%. For 2013, the median of inflation expectations increased to 5.20% from 5.00%. Specifically for banks, asset managers and other institutions (real sector companies, brokers, consultancies and others), the medians of expectations for the 2012 IPCA changed to 5.21%, 5.24% and 5.27%, from 5.29%, 5.29% and 5.30%, respectively. For 2013, the medians changed to 5.20%, 5.40% and 5.00% from 4.94%, 5.00% and 4.80%, in the same order. 
19. The benchmark scenario assumes the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$1.70/US$1.00 and the Selic rate at 10.50% p.y. during the forecast period. Under this scenario, the projection for the 2012 inflation decreased relative to the figure considered at the January Copom meeting, and it stands below the 4.50% midpoint target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). According to the market scenario, which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin in the period immediately prior to the Copom meeting, IPCA inflation forecast for 2012 also retreated and stands around the midpoint inflation target. For 2013, the inflation projection rose in the reference scenario and shows relative stability in the market scenario, in both cases positioned above the midpoint target. 
20. The Copom evaluates that monetary policy should contribute to the consolidation of a favorable longer-term macroeconomic environment. In this respect, the Copom reassures that, under the inflation targeting regime, it guides its decisions according to BCB projected inflation and based on the analysis of alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine prices dynamics. The Committee also understands that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to reduce uncertainties regarding the future behavior of headline inflation, facilitate the assessment of scenarios by the monetary authority, as well as help the process of coordination of economic agents’ expectations, particularly price setters’. Additionally, it is noteworthy that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to intensify the effects of monetary policy actions, enabling them to affect in a more long-lasting manner the dynamics of headline inflation in the future. Although the Copom recognizes that other actions of macroeconomic policy may influence the price trajectory, it reaffirms its view that it is particularly under the responsibility of the monetary policy to remain especially vigilant to guarantee that pressures detected in shorter horizons do not spread to longer horizons. 
21. International evidence, ratified by the Brazilian experience, indicates that high inflation rates lead to the increase in risk premia, both for private and public funding, and to the shortening of planning horizons, both for households and companies. Consequently, high inflation rates reduce investment and economic growth potential, in addition to presenting regressive effects on income distribution. In other words, high inflation rates do not originate any lasting results for economic and employment growth, on the contrary, they create permanent damage to these variables in the medium and long terms. Therefore, the strategy adopted by the Copom aims to ensure the convergence of inflation towards the targets path, which requires that possible deviations from the target path be promptly corrected. Such strategy takes into account the time lags in the transmission mechanism and is the most adequate to deal with the uncertainty inherent to the process of monetary policy formulation and implementation. 
22. The Copom considers that, since the last meeting, the risks to global financial stability have remained high, particularly those derived from the ongoing deleveraging process observed in the main economic blocks. The Committee understands that the chances that the restrictions to which several mature economies are now exposed extend for a period longer than previously anticipated remain high. It also notes that, in these economies, there seems to be limited scope for using monetary policy, and a scenario of fiscal restraint also prevails, in this and in the upcoming years. Moreover, for important emerging economies, despite the resilience of domestic demand, the pace of activity has moderated, in part, as a consequence of policy actions and the weakening of external demand, through the external trade channel. In specific cases, changes in the growth pattern are anticipated, a development that tends to be permanent. Therefore, the Committee considers that the international scenario shows disinflationary bias for the relevant horizon. 
23. For the Copom, there are cumulative evidences supporting the view that the transmission of external developments to the Brazilian economy materializes through several channels, among others, the reduction of total trade, the moderation in investment flows and tighter credit conditions. The Committee understands that the effects of the complexity surrounding the international environment add up to those stemming from the moderation of domestic activity, which is mirrored, for instance, in the retreat of growth projections for the Brazilian economy in this and in the upcoming year. In other words, the moderation process the Brazilian economy was already experiencing in the first half of last year was intensified by the weakness of the global economy. 
24. The Copom evaluates that, although domestic demand expansion has moderated, prospects for economic activity are favorable. This assessment is supported by signs that, despite showing some cooling, point to the fact that the expansion of credit supply tends to persist, both for individuals and corporate, and by the fact that consumers’ confidence, notwithstanding the accommodation at the margin, stands at historically high levels. The Copom considers, additionally, that the domestic activity will continue to be benefited by public transfers, as well as by the labor market vigor, mirrored in historically low unemployment rates and in wages growth, despite some accommodation at the margin. 
25. The Copom reaffirms its view that inflation accumulated in twelve months, which started to retreat in the last quarter, tends to continue the decline and, therefore, to move towards the targets path. The Committee evaluates that, by itself, the reversion in the inflation trend will contribute to improve the economic agents’ expectations, especially those of the price setters, about the dynamics of inflation in the upcoming quarters. Additionally, the Committee believes that this improvement in the perception will be boosted by the ongoing process of reassessment of the economic activity pace, both domestic and external, in this and in the upcoming semesters. 
26. The Copom notes that the main inflation scenario considers the materialization of the assumed trajectories regarding fiscal variables. It bears highlighting that the generation of primary surpluses in line with the hypotheses considered for inflation projections, in addition to contributing to reduce the mismatches between supply and demand growth rates, will strengthen the reduction trend of the public debt-to-GDP ratio. 
27. The Copom highlights that its main scenario also considers moderate expansion in credit market. Still about the credit market, the Committee considers opportune the adoption of initiatives with the aim of moderating the concession of subsidies through credit operations. 
28. The Copom evaluates as decreasing the risks stemming from the persistence of the mismatch, in specific segments, between supply and demand growth rates. However, it highlights the narrow idleness margin in the labor market, despite the signs of moderation in this market, and considers that, under such circumstances, an important risk stems from the possibility of concession of wages increases incompatible with productivity growth and from its negative impacts over inflation dynamics. On the other hand, the Copom notes that the level of installed capacity utilization has stabilized and is below the long-term trend, in other works, is contributing to the opening of the output gap and to contain prices pressures. The Committee also observes that, in general, commodities prices in international markets have shown benign behavior. 
29. The Copom considers that the deceleration of the Brazilian economy in the second half of 2011 was higher than expected, that recent events indicate the postponement of a final solution for the European financial crisis, and that the risks associated to the deleveraging process – stemming from banks, families and government - under way in major economic blocs persist. These and other elements, therefore, constitute an economic environment in which a much above-than-usual uncertainty level prevails. For the Committee, the prospective scenario for inflation, since the last meeting, has accumulated favorable signs. The Committee also notes that, according to the main scenario adopted, the inflation rate stands around the target in 2012, and assess as decreasing the risks for the materialization of a scenario in which inflation timely converges to the midpoint target. 
30. In short, since the last Monetary Policy Committee meeting, the main scenario for inflation has evolved, in general terms, as then expected by the Committee, and, therefore, it does not detect significant changes in the estimates for the total adjustment of monetary conditions underlying this scenario. In light of this, two members of the Committee consider that it would be opportune the maintenance of the pace of adjustment of the Selic rate. However, the majority argues that developments such as the ones mentioned in the previous paragraph recommend, at this time, the redistribution along time of the total adjustment of monetary conditions as the most appropriate strategy. 
31. In this context, continuing the process of monetary conditions adjustment, the Copom decided to decrease the Selic rate to 9.75% p.a., without bias, with five votes for the monetary policy action and two votes in favor of reducing the Selic rate by 50 basis points. 
32. The Copom evaluates that domestic demand is still robust, especially household consumption, largely due to the effects of stimulus factors, such as income growth and credit expansion. This scenario tends to prevail in this and in the upcoming quarters, when domestic demand will be impacted by the effects of monetary policy actions recently implemented, which are, in short, lagged and cumulative. On the other hand, the Committee considers that recent initiatives reinforce a scenario for restrained public sector expenditures. Another important factor to curb aggregate demand is the substantial and persistent deterioration in the international scenario. These elements and quasi fiscal developments are an important part of the context in which future monetary policy decisions will be taken, aiming to ensure the timely convergence of inflation to the targets path. 
33. The Copom understands that Brazilian economy has experienced significant structural changes, which determined retreat in the interest rates in general and, in particular, in the neutral rate. Among the factors that support this view, it bears highlighting the reduction of risk premia, a direct consequence of the accomplishment of the inflation target for the eighth consecutive year, of the macroeconomic stability and of institutional improvements. Moreover, the process of interest rates reduction was favored by changes in the structure of the financial and capital markets, by the credit market deepening, as well as by the generation of primary surpluses consistent with the maintenance of decreasing trend for the public debt-to-GDP ratio. For the Committee, all these changes are characterized by a high degree of persistence – although, due to the economic cycles themselves, specific and temporary reversions can occur – and contribute for the Brazilian economy to currently present solid indicators of solvency and liquidity. 
34. The Copom also considers that the increase in the supply of external savings and the reduction of its funding cost have contributed to the reduction of the domestic interest rates, including the neutral rate, which, according to the Committee's assessment, are largely permanent developments. 