1. Monthly inflation measured by the Extended Consumer Price Index (IPCA) reached 0.21% in March (0.45% in February and 0.56% in January), resulting in the sixth consecutive retreat of twelve-month trailing inflation, which moved from 5.85% in February to 5.24% in March (6.30% in March 2011). Market prices inflation increased 5.49% in the twelve months through March (7.04% in March 2011), while regulated prices inflation reached 4.58% (4.53% in March 2011). Regarding market prices, it bears highlighting that tradable goods inflation increased 3.41% in the twelve months through March, while inflation related to non-tradable goods increased 7.37%, compared to 6.04% and 7.93% in the same period of 2011, respectively. Specifically on services, inflation in this segment reached 0.52% in March, after rising 1.25% in February, totaling 7.75% in the twelve months through March (down from 8.53% in March 2011). In short, the set of available information suggests a declining trend of inflation on a twelve-month accumulated basis towards the inflation target, in spite of the fact that services inflation still remains at high levels. 
2. Underlying inflation measures calculated by the BCB, in general, have performed similarly to headline inflation. The average of monthly changes moved from 0.52% in January to 0.46% in February and 0.25% in March. On its turn, on a twelve-month trailing basis, the average change of the five core inflation measures moved from 6.41% in January to 6.10% in February and 5.69% in March, sixth consecutive retreat. The smoothed trimmed means IPCA core inflation moved from 0.47% in January to 0.41% in February and 0.28% in March, while the non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation changed from 0.36% to 0.28% and 0.27% in the same period. Similarly, the double weight core inflation, after registering 0.59% in January, retreated to 0.47% in February and 0.26% in March. At the same time, core inflation by exclusion, which excludes ten household food and fuels items, increased from 0.59% in January to 0.60% in February, before retreating to 0.21% in March, while the core inflation by exclusion of regulated prices and household food changed from 0.57% in January to 0.54% in February and 0.22% in March. 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) increased 0.56% in March, after increasing 0.07% in February and 0.30% in January. Thus, on a twelve-month trailing basis, the IGP-DI recorded the fifteenth consecutive retreat in March, to 3.32%, 7.77 percentage points (p.p.) below that registered in March 2011. The main component of the indicator, the Wholesale Price Index (IPA), changed 1.80% in the twelve months through March, reflecting an increase of 2.53% in the industrial IPA and a decrease of 0.14% in the agricultural IPA. According to the breakdown by stage of production, according to the same comparison basis, there were increases in the price of raw materials (0.02%), intermediate goods (2.17%) and final goods (2.96%). Inflation measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPI), the second most important component of the IGP-DI, stood at 5.50% in the twelve months through March (5.86% in March 2011). The Civil Construction National Index (INCC), component with the lowest weight in the IGP-DI, changed 8.10%. On its turn, the Producer/Manufacturing Industry Price Index (IPP/IT), calculated by the IBGE, decreased 0.38% in February, after deflation of 0.43% in January. In twelve months, this index changed from 1.75% in January to 0.76% in February. In general, the recent evolution of the wholesale and producer price indices signals reduction of inflationary pressures in these segments. 
4. The Economic Activity Index of the BCB (IBC-Br) incorporates estimates for the monthly production of the three sectors of the economy, as well as for taxes on products, and constitutes an important coincident indicator of economic activity. Considering seasonally adjusted data, the IBC-Br decreased by 0.2% in February, the same change observed in January, after expansion of 0.4% in December. Thus, the indicator increased 0.9% in the quarter ended in February, compared to the quarter ended in November 2011. In twelve months, the growth rate has been slowing since November 2010, and reached 1.9% in February. On its turn, the Consumer Confidence Index (ICC), from Getúlio Vargas Foundation (FGV), recorded the second consecutive rise in March. Similarly, the Services Confidence Index (ICS) registered the second consecutive increase in March, after six negative results. 
5. Indicators on credit conditions, based on quarterly survey carried on by the BCB with institutions representative of each segment of the credit market, evidence, in general, more flexible conditions in the second quarter of 2012, quarter-over-quarter. Specifically on credit to great companies, the assessment suggests a still restrictive scenario (regarding credit approval), but with lower intensity. For micro, small and medium-sized companies, the indicators show increase in credit approval in the second quarter, quarter-over-quarter, with moderately stronger demand and still moderately restrictive supply, but with lower intensity. Regarding credit for consumption, the expectation for the second quarter indicates reduction in the share of credit approval, compared to the observed in the last quarter. For housing credit, despite the supply at levels similar to those observed between January and March 2012, the expectation of demand expansion tends to confirm scenario with elevation in the share of approval. 
6. Industrial activity increased by 1.3% in February, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, after decreasing by 1.5% in January and increasing 0.5% in December. Production increased in 18 out of the 27 branches of activity in February, with highlights for the recovery of the automotive vehicles sector (13.1%), after strong retreat in January. According to the quarterly moving average, industrial production increased 0.1% between December and February, the first positive figure according to this comparison basis recorded since July 2011. Year-over-year, production decreased 3.9% in February, while on a twelve-month accumulated basis, it decreased by 1.0%. On the other hand, compared to December 2008, month with the lowest output level during the 2008/09 crisis, the accumulated growth until February 2012 reaches 22.1%. According to seasonally adjusted data from the National Industry Confederation (CNI), revenues in the manufacturing industry recorded 1.5% real growth in February, month-on-month, while the number of hours worked increased 2.2%, according to the same comparison basis. 
7. Among the industry use categories, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, in February the production of durable consumer goods decreased 4.3%, while the production of non-durable and semi-durable consumer goods increased by 1.1%. The production of intermediate goods grew 2.3%, while capital goods expanded by 5.7%, after decreasing by 16.1% in January. In the twelve months through February, there were decreases in the production of durable consumer goods (-6.1%), non-durable and semi-durable consumer goods (-0.5%), intermediate goods (-0.3%) and capital goods (-1.0%). 
8. The unemployment rate in the six metropolitan regions covered by the IBGE Monthly Labor Survey (PME), according to observed data, reached 5.7% in February, after reaching 5.5% in January and 4.7% in December. The February rate was 0.7 p.p. below the rate recorded in the same month last year. According to data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, the unemployment rate reduced from 5.6% in January to 5.5% in February, the record low for the series initiated in March 2002. In twelve months, there were increases of 1.9% in the occupation level and 1.3% in the economically active population. Regarding occupied population, the share of formal employees in the private sector – which has been growing consistently in the last years – reached 49.7% in February, but data released by the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) indicate moderation in this process. In fact, in March, 111.7 thousand formal jobs were created (compared to 150.6 thousand jobs created in February), and expansion in the number of formal jobs in six out of the eight sectors of economic activity, with the main contributions stemming from the sectors of services and civil construction. According to PME, real average earnings increased 1.2% in February and 4.4% in twelve months. As a consequence, real payroll, considering the average earnings of occupied population in the six metropolitan regions, expanded 6.4% year-over-year. In short, the set of available data indicates that, although the labor market remains robust, there are signs of moderation at the margin. 
9. According to the retail monthly survey (PMC) from IBGE, expanded retail sales increased 2.5% in February, year-over-year, after recording 8.3% growth in January and 4.3% in December, according to the same comparison basis. According to the seasonally adjusted series, expanded retail sales decreased by 1.1% in February, month-on-month, after increasing by 1.8% in January and 1.6% in December. Thus, in the last twelve months through February, the volume of sales increased 5.5%. The volume of sales in all ten sectors surveyed expanded in the last twelve months, with highlights for equipment and supplies for office, computer and communication (22.1%) and furniture and appliances (15.5%). Since October, the FGV, in partnership with the BCB, has been releasing the Trade Confidence Index (ICOM). This indicator provides important additional information, as it portrays the current state and signals the evolution of commercial activity in a more timely manner. In March the index evolved positively, after five negative figures, boosted by the improvement in expectations for the future. In the upcoming months, the retail sales trajectory will continue to be influenced by governmental transfers, by the pace of real payroll growth, by the improvement in the consumer confidence level and by moderate credit expansion. 
10. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry, calculated by the FGV, without seasonal adjustment, moved from 82.9% in February to 83.0% in March, 0.5 p.p. below the level observed in March 2011. According to the seasonally adjusted monthly series calculated by the FGV, the Nuci stood at 83.8% in March – 2.9 p.p. below the record high recorded in June 2008. Capacity utilization is more significant in the sector of construction inputs (86.0%), although a 4.5 p.p. retreat in this sector has occurred since November 2011. In the sector of intermediate goods, the Nuci stood at 84.4%, compared to 82.7% in the sector of capital goods, and 82.4% in the sector of consumer goods. According to the Confederation of National Industry (CNI) data, seasonally adjusted by the BCB, the Nuci stood stable at 82.3% in February. It is worth noticing that the difference between the proportion of companies that reported excess inventories and those which reported insufficient inventories fell in March for the third consecutive month. 
11. The trade balance surplus on a twelve-month accumulated basis increased from US$28.6 billion in February to US$29.1 billion in March. This result stemmed from US$259.9 billion in exports and US$230.8 billion in imports, equivalent to 21.5% and 20.5% changes, respectively, in the last twelve months through March. The current account deficit accumulated in twelve months changed from US$54.1 billion in January to US$52.4 billion in February, equivalent to 2.09% of GDP. On its turn, foreign direct investment reached US$65.0 billion in the twelve months through February, equivalent to 2.60% of GDP. 
12. Global economy continues to face a period of above-than-usual uncertainty, despite some stability in the risk aversion level, and with prospects of low growth. Since the last Copom meeting, a more positive perception about the activity in the United States (US) and Japan has consolidated, but risks, such as the ones related to the oil price and to the scenario of fiscal constraint, persist. The unlimited provision of liquidity by the European Central Bank (ECB) reduced the probability of occurrence of extreme events, but elevated risks to global financial stability persist, among other factors, due to international banks exposure to sovereign debts of countries with fiscal imbalances. High persistent unemployment rates, coupled with the need for fiscal adjustments, the limited scope for anticyclical policy actions and the political uncertainty, have contributed for projections of low growth in mature economies, despite the heterogeneity among countries. In fact, both the composite leading indicator released by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), for February, and the disaggregate indicators of Purchasing Managers Index (PMI), for March, point to fragile activity in the Euro Area. At the same time, activity in China decelerated in the first quarter, and recorded the lowest growth rate since the first quarter of 2009. Regarding monetary policy, mature economies have persisted with strongly accommodative monetary stances and, in some cases, with non-conventional policy initiatives. Despite this fact, inflation core measures have continued at moderate levels both in the US and in the Euro Area and Japan, considering the relatively moderate prospects for the activity level. In emerging economies, in general, the monetary policy bias is expansionist. 
13. The price of Brent oil barrel remained above US$115, reflecting, in part, political instability in important producing countries and lags in the process of production resumption. It bears highlighting that the geopolitical complexity that involves the oil sector tends to heighten the volatile behavior of prices, which is also a reflex of the low predictability of some global demand components and of the dependency of supply growth on long term risky investment projects. Regarding the other commodities, it is noteworthy the downward movement for agricultural and metal international prices since the last Copom meeting, with respective decreases of 4.6% and 2.8%, as measured by the Commodity Research Bureau (CRB). Compared to the peak recorded in April 2011, the cumulative decline in both categories stands at 17.5% and 20%, respectively. The food price index, calculated by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), which considers 55 items, accumulates a fall of 6.5% until March, since the peak observed in February 2011. In the recent past, the high volatility observed for the commodities prices was strongly impacted by the abundant global liquidity, in a context where financial markets adjust to new expectations for growth and volatility in FX markets. Prospectively, it is plausible to affirm that the Chinese authorities’ announcement of reduced growth targets tends to generate some impact on commodities prices. 
14. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to the new set of available information. The scenario considered in the simulations was based on the following assumptions: 
a) the projected adjustment for gasoline and bottled gas prices, for 2012, were maintained at 0%, the same value considered at the March meeting, 
b) the projected adjustments for 2012 for fixed telephone was maintained at 1.5%, the same value considered at the March meeting, while the electricity projection was decreased to 1.3%, down from 2.3% considered at the March meeting, 
c) the projection for regulated prices inflation accumulated in 2012, based on individual items, according to the benchmark scenario, was maintained at 4.0%, the same value considered at the March meeting, 
d) the projection for regulated prices inflation accumulated in 2013, according to the benchmark scenario, remained at 4.5%, the same value considered at the March Copom meeting. Such projection is based on endogenous determination models for regulated prices, which compute, among other factors, seasonal components, foreign exchange rate changes, market prices inflation and the IGP (General Price Index) change, and 
e) the projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, based on the 360-day swap rates, on the benchmark scenario, estimates 23 bps and 11 bps spreads in the fourth quarters of 2012 and 2013, respectively. 
15. Regarding fiscal policy, projections assume the achievement in 2012 of the public sector primary surplus target (R$139.8 billion), around 3.10% of GDP, without adjustments, according to the parameters contained in the Budget Guidelines Law (LDO) - 2012. Furthermore, it is accepted as a working hypothesis, a primary surplus of R$ 155.9 billion for 2013, around 3.10% of GDP, without adjustment, according to parameters set out in Draft Budget Guidelines Law (PLDO) - 2013. For 2014, it is accepted as a working hypothesis a primary surplus of 3.10% of GDP, without adjustments. 
16. The set of projections incorporated the estimated effects of the reduction in the neutral interest rate identified over the last years. 
17. As a working hypothesis, the main scenario also considers that the current deterioration in the international scenario will have an impact on the Brazilian economy equivalent to one fourth of the impact observed during the 2008/2009 international crisis. It is noteworthy that part of this estimated impact is already being observed in the most recent economic activity indicators. 
18. Since the last Copom meeting, the median of the expectations compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations and Special Studies Department (Gerin) for the 2012 IPCA decreased to 5.08% from 5.24%. For 2013, the median of inflation expectations increased to 5.50% from 5.20%. Specifically for banks, asset managers and other institutions (real sector companies, brokers, consultancies and others), the median of expectations for the 2012 IPCA changed to 5.08%, 5.06% and 5.08%, from 5.21%, 5.24% and 5.27%, respectively. For 2013, the median changed to 5.50%, 5.73% and 5.30%, from 5.20%, 5.40% and 5.00%, in the same order. 
19. The benchmark scenario assumes the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$1.85/US$1.00 and the Selic rate at 9.75% p.y. during the forecast period. Under this scenario, the projection for the 2012 inflation increased relative to the figure considered at the March Copom meeting, and it stands around the 4.50% midpoint target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). According to the market scenario, which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin in the period immediately prior to the Copom meeting, IPCA inflation forecast for 2012 also increased and stands around the midpoint inflation target. For 2013, the inflation projection rose in the reference scenario and remained stable in the market scenario, standing above the midpoint target in both cases. 
20. The Copom evaluates that monetary policy should contribute to the consolidation of a favorable longer-term macroeconomic environment. In this respect, the Copom reassures that, under the inflation targeting regime, it guides its decisions according to BCB projected inflation and based on the analysis of alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine prices dynamics. The Committee also understands that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to reduce uncertainties regarding the future behavior of headline inflation, facilitate the assessment of scenarios by the monetary authority, as well as help the process of coordination of economic agents’ expectations, particularly price setters’. Additionally, it is noteworthy that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to intensify the effects of monetary policy actions, enabling them to affect in a more long-lasting manner the dynamics of headline inflation in the future. Although the Copom recognizes that other actions of macroeconomic policy may influence the price trajectory, it reaffirms its view that it is particularly under the responsibility of the monetary policy to remain especially vigilant to guarantee that pressures detected in shorter horizons do not spread to longer horizons. 
21. International evidence, ratified by the Brazilian experience, indicates that high inflation rates lead to the increase in risk premia, both for private and public funding, and to the shortening of planning horizons, both for households and companies. Consequently, high inflation rates reduce investment and economic growth potential, in addition to presenting regressive effects on income distribution. In other words, high inflation rates do not originate any lasting results for economic and employment growth, on the contrary, they create permanent damage to these variables in the medium and long terms. Therefore, the strategy adopted by the Copom aims to ensure the convergence of inflation towards the targets path, which requires that possible deviations from the target path be promptly corrected. Such strategy takes into account the time lags in the transmission mechanism and is the most adequate to deal with the uncertainty inherent to the process of monetary policy formulation and implementation. 
22. The Copom considers that, since the last meeting, the risks to global financial stability have remained high, particularly those deriving from the ongoing deleveraging process observed in the main economic blocks. The Committee understands that, in general, the restrictions to which several mature economies were exposed have changed little. It also notes that, in these economies, there seems to be limited scope for using monetary policy, and a scenario of fiscal restraint also prevails, in this and in the upcoming years. Moreover, in important emerging economies, despite the resilience of domestic demand, the pace of activity has moderated, in part, as a consequence of policy actions and the weakening of external demand, through the external trade channel. In specific cases, changes in the growth pattern are anticipated, a development that tends to be permanent. Therefore, until now, the Committee evaluates that the international scenario has shown disinflationary bias. 
23. For the Copom, there are cumulative evidences supporting the view that the transmission of external developments to the Brazilian economy materializes through several channels, among others, moderation of total trade, moderation in investment flows and tighter credit conditions. The Committee understands that the effects of the complexity surrounding the international environment added up to those stemming from the moderation of domestic activity. In other words, the moderation process the Brazilian economy was already experiencing in the first half of last year was intensified by the weakness of the global economy. 
24. The Copom evaluates, however, that although domestic demand expansion has also been moderate, prospects for economic activity in this and in the upcoming semesters are favorable, with some asymmetry among the several sectors. This assessment is supported by signs that point to moderate expansion of credit supply both for individuals and corporate, and by the fact that consumers’ and businessmen’s confidence, stands at high levels. The Copom understands, additionally, that the domestic activity will continue to be benefited by public transfers, as well as by the labor market vigor, mirrored in historically low unemployment rates and in wages growth, despite some accommodation at the margin. 
25. The Copom reaffirms its view that inflation accumulated in twelve months, which started to retreat in the last quarter of last year, tends to continue the decline and, therefore, to move towards the targets path. The Committee evaluates that the reversion in the inflation trend will contribute to improve the economic agents’ expectations, especially price setters’, about the dynamics of inflation in the upcoming quarters. Additionally, the Committee understands that this improvement in the sentiment tends to be boosted by the ongoing process of moderation in the dynamic of producer prices and at wholesale markets. 
26. The Copom notes that the main inflation scenario considers the materialization of the assumed trajectories regarding fiscal variables. It bears highlighting that the generation of primary surpluses in line with the hypotheses considered for inflation projections, in addition to contributing to reduce the mismatches between supply and demand growth rates, will strengthen the reduction trend of the public debt-to-GDP ratio. 
27. The Copom highlights that its main scenario also considers moderate expansion in the credit market. Still about the credit market, the Committee considers opportune the initiatives with the aim of moderating the concession of subsidies through credit operations. 
28. The Copom evaluates as decreasing the risks stemming from the persistence of the mismatch, in specific segments, between supply and demand growth rates. However, it highlights the narrow idleness margin in the labor market, despite the signs of moderation in this market, and considers that, under such circumstances, an important risk stems from the possibility of concession of wages increases incompatible with productivity growth and their negative impacts over inflation dynamics. On the other hand, the Copom notes that the level of installed capacity utilization has stabilized and is below the long-term trend, in other words, it is contributing to the opening of the output gap and to contain prices pressures. 
29. The Copom considers that the deceleration of the Brazilian economy in the second half of 2011 was deeper than expected, that recent events indicate the postponement of a final solution for the European financial crisis, and that the risks related to the deleveraging process – stemming from banks, families and government - under way in major economic blocks remain elevated. These and other elements, therefore, constitute an economic environment in which a much above-than-usual uncertainty level prevails. For the Committee, the prospective scenario for inflation, since the last meeting, has maintained favorable signs. The Committee also notes that, according to the main scenario adopted, the inflation rate stands around the target in 2012. 
30. In short, the Copom considers that, at the present moment, the risks to the inflation trajectory remain limited. The Committee also notes that, until now, due to the global economy’s fragility, the external sector contribution has been disinflationary. 
31. In this context, continuing the process of monetary conditions adjustment, the Copom unanimously decided to decrease the Selic rate to 9.00% p.a., without bias. 
32. The Copom evaluates that domestic demand tends to show robustness, especially household consumption, largely due to the effects of stimulus factors, such as income growth and moderate credit expansion. This scenario tends to prevail in this and in the upcoming semesters, when domestic demand will be impacted by the effects of monetary policy actions recently implemented, which are, in short, lagged and cumulative. On the other hand, the Committee considers that recent initiatives reinforce a scenario for restrained public sector expenditures. Another important factor to curb aggregate demand is the still fragile international scenario. These elements and quasi fiscal developments are an important part of the context in which future monetary policy decisions will be taken, aiming to ensure the timely convergence of inflation to the targets path. 
33. The Copom understands that Brazilian economy has experienced significant structural changes, which determined retreat in the interest rates in general and, in particular, in the neutral rate. Among the factors that support this view, it bears highlighting the reduction of risk premia, a direct consequence of the accomplishment of the inflation target for the eighth consecutive year, of the macroeconomic stability and of institutional improvements. Moreover, the process of interest rates reduction was favored by changes in the structure of the financial and capital markets, by the credit market deepening, as well as by the generation of primary surpluses consistent with the maintenance of decreasing trend for the public debt-to-GDP ratio. For the Committee, all these changes are characterized by a high degree of persistence – although, due to the economic cycles themselves, specific and temporary reversions may occur – and contribute for the Brazilian economy to currently present solid indicators of solvency and liquidity. 
34. The Copom also considers that the increase in the supply of external savings and the reduction of its funding cost have contributed to the reduction of the domestic interest rates, including the neutral rate, which, according to the Committee's assessment, are largely permanent developments.