1. Monthly inflation measured by the Extended Consumer Price Index (IPCA) rose to 0.43% in July (0.08% in June). As a consequence, twelve-month trailing inflation reached 5.20%, compared to 6.87% in July 2011. Market prices changed 5.77% in the twelve months through July (7.38% in July 2011), and regulated prices, 3.67% (5.67% in July 2011). Among market prices, the prices of tradable goods increased 3.08% in the twelve months through July (6.44% in July 2011), and the prices of non-tradable goods, 8.24% (8.18% in July 2011). The prices of food and beverages group, impacted by domestic and external weather-related factors, increased by 0.91% in July (-0.34% in July 2011) and reached 8.68% in twelve months. The prices of services rose 0.79% in July (0.52% in June) and 7.90% in twelve months (8.82% in July 2011). In summary, services inflation still remains at high levels and there are localized pressures in the food and beverages segment. 
2. Underlying inflation measures calculated by the BCB have performed similarly to headline inflation. The average of monthly changes moved from 0.14% in June to 0.43% in July. On its turn, on a twelve-month trailing basis, the average change of the five core inflation measures moved from 5.16% in June to 5.24% in July. The smoothed trimmed means IPCA core inflation moved from 0.39% in June to 0.40% in July, and the non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation changed from 0.30% to 0.35% in the same period. Similarly, the double weight core inflation, after registering 0.07% in June, registered 0.53% in July. At the same time, core inflation by exclusion, which excludes ten household food and fuels items, increased from 0.05% in June to 0.46% in July, and the core inflation by exclusion of regulated prices and household food changed from -0.09% in June to 0.43% in July. 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) increased from 0.69% in June to 1.52% in July, resulting, on a twelve-month trailing basis, in 7.31 % (8.34% in July 2011). The main component of this indicator, the Wholesale Price Index (IPA), changed 7.93% in the twelve months through July, influenced by the agricultural sector (13.93%), impacted by supply shocks. According to the breakdown by stage of production, there were increases in the prices of raw materials (10.63%), intermediate goods (7.99%) and final goods (5.52%), according to the same comparison basis. Inflation measured by the Consumer Price Index (IPC), the second most important component of the IGP-DI, stood at 5.65% in the twelve months through July (6.58% in July 2011). The Civil Construction National Index (INCC), component with the lowest weight in the IGP-DI, changed 7.27%, driven by the increase in labor cost. On its turn, the Producer/Manufacturing Industry Price Index (IPP/IT), calculated by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), increased 1.13% in June (1.69% in May), and 6.66% in twelve months. The Copom considers that the effects of the behavior of wholesale prices on consumer inflation will depend on the current and prospective demand conditions and on the price setters' expectations regarding the future inflation path. 
4. The Economic Activity Index of the BCB (IBC-Br) incorporates estimates for the monthly production of the three sectors of the economy, as well as for taxes on products, and constitutes important coincident indicator of economic activity. Considering seasonally adjusted data, the IBC-Br increased by 0.7% in June, after registering stability in May. As a consequence, the indicator increased 0.4% in the second quarter, quarter-over-quarter, and increased 0.7% year-over-year. Therefore, the twelve-month accumulated growth rate reached 1.2% in June. On its turn, the Consumer Confidence Index (ICC), from Getúlio Vargas Foundation (FGV), retreated for the fourth consecutive month in August, after reaching, in April, the record high for the series started in September 2005. On its turn, the Services Sector Confidence Index (ICS) presented the fifth consecutive decline in July and points to moderation of the activity in the sector. 
5. Industrial activity registered positive growth in June after three months of declines, according to the series seasonally adjusted by the IBGE. Therefore, industrial production rose 0.2% in June, after falling 1.0% in May. Production grew in twelve of the 27 branches of activity. Industrial production fell 5.5% in June year-over-year and 2.3% on a twelve-month accumulated basis. As a consequence, production in the first semester stood 3.8% below the production in the first semester of 2011. Regarding revenues in the manufacturing industry, there was real growth of 3.1% in the first semester, according to the same comparison basis, despite a 1.4% decline in the number of hours worked, according to the National Confederation of Industry (CNI). 
6. Among the industry use categories, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, the production of durable consumer goods grew 4.8% in June, the highest level in six months. The production of semi-durable and nondurable consumer goods, and of capital goods, expanded by 1.8% and 1.4%, respectively, in June, while the production of intermediate goods decreased by 0.9%. Regarding the twelve-month accumulated growth through June, there were decreases in the production of durable consumer goods (-7.6%), semi-durable and non-durable consumer goods (-0.3%), capital goods (- 5.5%) and intermediate goods (-1.5%). 
7. The IBGE released the July unemployment rate for four of the six metropolitan areas covered by the Monthly Employment Survey (PME). On a month-on-month basis, the survey indicated some stability in the unemployment rates in Belo Horizonte, Porto Alegre and Recife, which registered 4.4%, 3.8% and 6.5%, respectively, and a sharp drop in the metropolitan region of São Paulo, where the unemployment rate decreased from 6.5% in June to 5.7% in July. Compared to July 2011, the unemployment rate fell by 0.3 percentage points (p.p.) in Belo Horizonte, 0.9 p.p. in Porto Alegre and 0.8 p.p. in Sao Paulo, while in Recife there was an increase of 0.2 p.p.. Data released by the Ministry of Labour and Employment (MTE) show that, in July, 142.5 thousand formal jobs were created (140.6 thousand in July 2011). The sectors that contributed the most to this increase in the number of formal jobs in the month, in absolute terms, were the services and the civil construction sectors. Also according to the PME, the average real income in July fell significantly in Belo Horizonte, Recife and São Paulo, and remained stable in Porto Alegre. In short, the set of available data indicates that, although the labor market remains robust, there are signs of moderation at the margin. 
8. According to the retail monthly survey (PMC) from IBGE, broad retail sales increased 12.3% in June, year-over-year, supported, in part, by fiscal stimuli. According to the seasonally adjusted series, broad retail sales increased 6.1% in June, month-on-month, after stability in May. The accumulated growth rate in twelve months stood at 5.6% in June, with expansion in all ten sectors surveyed, with highlights for office, computer and communication material and equipment (20.9%) and furniture and appliances (14.9%). Since October 2011, the FGV, in partnership with the BCB, has been releasing the Trade Confidence Index (ICOM). This indicator provides important additional information, as it portrays the current outlook and signals the evolution of commercial activity in a more timely manner. In July, the index declined, after remaining stable in June. For the upcoming months, the retail sales trajectory will continue to be influenced by governmental transfers, by the pace of real payroll growth, by the reduction in borrowing costs and by moderate credit expansion. 
9. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry, calculated by the FGV, without seasonal adjustment, rose in August (84.4%), standing 0.4 p.p. above the level observed in August 2011. According to the seasonally adjusted series calculated by the FGV, the Nuci stood at 84.0% in August, also 0.4 p.p. above the level recorded in August 2011 and 2.7 p.p. below the record high of the series recorded in June 2008. Capacity utilization intensified in the consumer goods sector, which reached 86.1%, and also recovered in the capital goods sector, which recorded 82.6%. In the sector of intermediate goods and construction inputs, the levels stood at 85.5% and 87.0%, respectively. Also according to the FGV, the Industry Confidence Index continued a gradual recovery trajectory, reaching the highest level since July 2011 according to the seasonally adjusted series, due to improvements in perceptions of both the current situation and expectations. The share of companies that reported inventories at normal levels increased since the last Copom meeting. 
10. The trade balance surplus on a twelve-month accumulated basis continued a downward trajectory, dropping to US$23.6 billion in July. This result stemmed from US$253.7 billion in exports and US$230.1 billion in imports, associated to changes of 7.7% and 10.3%, respectively, compared to the previous twelve months. As a consequence, the current account deficit in the same period increased from US$51.8 billion in June to US$52.0 billion in July, equivalent to 2.17% of GDP. On its turn, foreign direct investment totaled US$66.3 billion in the twelve months through July, equivalent to 2.77% of GDP, surpassing the need for external financing. 
11. Global economy faces a period of above-than-usual uncertainty, with prospects of low growth for a prolonged period. In this sense, a moderate pace of activity in the United States (US) prevails, in an environment of risks deriving from the fiscal restraint outlook and from the European crisis. High unemployment rates for a long period, coupled with the implementation of fiscal adjustments, the limited space for countercyclical actions and political uncertainties are translated into projections of low growth for mature economies. The composite leading indicator released by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), referring to June, indicates moderate growth or strong slowdown in the main economies. In the same sense, the disaggregated indicators of the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) for July suggest moderate global activity, with slowdown in manufacturing activity. Regarding monetary policy, advanced economies persist with strongly accommodative stances, which can eventually be deepened further. Core inflation measures have remained at moderate levels in the US, in the Euro Area and in Japan. In emerging economies, in general, the monetary policy bias is expansionist, which combines, in some cases, with additional countercyclical policies. 
12. The price of Brent oil barrel has increased since the last Copom meeting and breached US$110. It bears highlighting that the even higher geopolitical complexity that involves the oil sector tends to heighten the volatile behavior of prices, which is also a reflex of the low predictability of some global demand components and of the dependency of supply growth on long term risky investment projects. As measured by the Commodity Research Bureau (CRB), since the last Copom meeting, international prices of metallic and agricultural commodities have increased 7.8% and 1.0%, respectively. Therefore, relative to the record highs observed in April 2011, the changes reach -23.4% and -10.0%, respectively. On its turn, the Food Price Index, calculated by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), accumulates a fall of 10.5% until July, compared to the peak recorded in February 2011. In the recent past, the high volatility observed for the commodities prices was influenced by the abundant global liquidity, in a context where financial markets adjust to new expectations for growth and volatility in FX markets. Prospectively, it is plausible to affirm that the reduction of growth targets in China, coupled with the fragility of the global economy, tends to generate downward pressures over commodities prices in the medium run. 
13. The identified shocks, and their impacts, were reassessed according to the new set of available information. The scenario considered in the simulations was based on the following assumptions: 
a) the projected adjustments for gasoline and bottled gas prices, for 2012, were maintained at 0%, the same value considered at the July Copom meeting, 
b) the projected adjustments for 2012 for fixed telephone and for electricity were maintained at -1.0% and 1.4%, unchanged relative to the July meeting, 
c) the projected adjustment, based on individual items, for the set of regulated prices inflation accumulated in 2012, was maintained at 3.6%, considered at the July Copom meeting, and 
d) the projected adjustment for the set of regulated prices inflation accumulated in 2013 was maintained at 4.5%, the same value considered at the July Copom meeting. Such projection is based on endogenous determination models for regulated prices, which compute, among other factors, seasonal components, market prices inflation, and the IGP (General Price Index) change. 
14. The projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, based on the 360-day swap rates, on the benchmark scenario, estimates -24 bps and 23 bps spreads in the fourth quarter of 2012 and 2013, respectively. 
15. Regarding fiscal policy, projections assume the achievement in 2012 of the public sector primary surplus around 3.10% of GDP, without adjustments. Furthermore, it is accepted, as a working hypothesis, a primary surplus around 3.10% of GDP for 2013, without adjustments, according to parameters set out in the Budget Guidelines Law (LDO) - 2013. For 2014, it is accepted, as a working hypothesis, a primary surplus of 3.10% of GDP, without adjustments. 
16. The set of projections incorporated the estimated effects of the reduction in the neutral interest rate identified over the last years. 
17. The main scenario does not include the occurrence of extreme events in international financial markets, but considers the estimates of the impacts caused by changes in the external environment on the Brazilian economy. In particular, it incorporates the estimated effect of the recent supply shock in agricultural commodities. 
18. Since the last Copom meeting, the median of the expectations compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations and Special Studies Department (Gerin) for the 2012 IPCA increased from 4.85% to 5.19%. For 2013, the median of inflation expectations was maintained at 5.50%. Specifically for banks, asset managers and other institutions (real sector companies, brokers, consultancies and others), the median of expectations for the 2012 IPCA changed to 5.20%, 5.19% and 5.19% from 4.87%, 4.85% and 4.85%, respectively. For 2013, the median changed to 5.50%, 5.67% and 5.46% from 5.50%, 5.70% and 5.46%, in the same order. 
19. The benchmark scenario assumes the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$2.00/US$1.00 and the Selic rate at 8.00% p.y. during the forecast period. Under this scenario, the projection for the 2012 inflation increased relative to the figure considered at the July Copom meeting and it stands above the 4.50% midpoint target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). According to the market scenario, which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin in the period immediately prior to the Copom meeting, IPCA inflation forecast for 2012 increased and it stands above the midpoint inflation target. For 2013, the inflation projection remained stable in both scenarios, above the midpoint target also in both cases. For the first half of 2014, the inflation forecast is above the midpoint inflation target in both scenarios. 
20. The Copom evaluates that monetary policy should contribute to the consolidation of a favorable longer-term macroeconomic environment. In this respect, the Copom reassures that, under the inflation targeting regime, it guides its decisions according to BCB projected inflation and based on the analysis of alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine prices dynamics. The Committee also understands that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to reduce uncertainties regarding the future behavior of headline inflation, facilitate the assessment of scenarios by the monetary authority, as well as help the process of coordination of economic agents’ expectations, particularly price setters’. Additionally, it is noteworthy that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to intensify the effects of monetary policy actions, enabling them to affect in a more long-lasting manner the dynamics of headline inflation in the future. Although the Copom recognizes that other macroeconomic policy actions may influence the prices trajectory, it reaffirms its view that it is particularly under the responsibility of the monetary policy to remain especially vigilant to guarantee that pressures detected in shorter horizons do not spread to longer horizons. 
21. International evidence, ratified by the Brazilian experience, indicates that high inflation rates lead to the increase in risk premia, both for private and public funding, and to the shortening of planning horizons, both for households and companies. Consequently, high inflation rates reduce investments and economic growth potential, in addition to presenting regressive effects on income distribution. In other words, high inflation rates do not originate any lasting results for economic and employment growth, on the contrary, they create permanent damage to these variables in the medium and long terms. Therefore, the strategy adopted by the Copom aims to ensure the convergence of inflation towards the targets path, which requires that possible deviations from the target path be promptly corrected. Such strategy takes into account the time lags in the transmission mechanism and is the most adequate to deal with the uncertainty inherent to the process of monetary policy formulation and implementation. 
22. The Copom considers that, since its last meeting, the risks to global financial stability have remained high, particularly those deriving from the ongoing deleveraging process observed in the main economic blocks. The Committee understands that, overall, the prospects of moderate global activity have remained unchanged, and the restrictions to which several mature economies were exposed have changed little. It also notes that, in these economies, there seems to be limited leeway for monetary policy actions, and a scenario of fiscal restraint also prevails, in this and in the upcoming years. Moreover, in important emerging economies, despite the resilience of domestic demand, the pace of activity remained moderate. On the other hand, since the last meeting, there were evidences of localized pricing pressures, stemming from an unfavorable supply shock in agricultural commodities. For the Committee, this shock tends to be less intense and less lasting than the one observed in 2010/2011, as well as it tends to reverse in the medium term. Therefore, despite manifesting inflationary bias in the short term, the international scenario looks disinflationary in the medium term. 
23. For the Copom, there are cumulative evidences supporting the view that the transmission of external developments to the Brazilian economy materializes through several channels, among others, moderation of total trade, moderation in investment flows and tighter credit conditions. Another transmission channel of great importance is the impact over businessmen confidence. 
24. The Copom evaluates that, although domestic demand expansion has moderated, prospects for economic activity in this and in the upcoming semesters are favorable, with some asymmetry among the several sectors. This assessment is supported by signs that point to moderate expansion of credit supply, both for individuals and corporate, and by the fact that consumers’ and, to a lesser extent, businessmen’s confidence stands at high levels. The Committee understands, additionally, that the domestic activity will continue to be benefited by public transfers, as well as by the labor market vigor, mirrored in historically low unemployment rates and in wages growth, despite some accommodation at the margin. 
25. The Copom reaffirms its view that inflation accumulated in twelve months, which started to retreat in the last quarter of 2011, tends to move non-linearly towards the targets path. The Committee evaluates that the reversion in the inflation trend will contribute to improve the economic agents’ expectations, especially price setters’, about the inflation dynamics in this and in the upcoming semesters. 
26. The Copom notes that the main inflation scenario considers the materialization of the assumed trajectories regarding fiscal variables. It bears highlighting that the generation of primary surpluses in line with the hypotheses considered for inflation projections, in addition to contributing to reduce the mismatch between supply and demand growth rates, will strengthen the reduction trend of the public debt-to-GDP ratio and the positive perception regarding the macroeconomic environment in the medium and long terms. 
27. The Copom highlights that its main scenario also considers moderate expansion in the credit market. Still about the credit market, the Committee considers opportune the initiatives with the aim of moderating the concession of subsidies through credit operations. 
28. The Copom evaluates as decreasing the risks stemming from the persistence of the mismatch, in specific segments, between supply and demand growth rates. However, it highlights the narrow idleness margin in the labor market, despite the signs of moderation in this market, and considers that, under such circumstances, an important risk stems from the possibility of concession of wages increases incompatible with productivity growth and their negative impacts over inflation dynamics. On the other hand, the Copom notes that the level of installed capacity utilization has stabilized and is below the long-term trend, in other words, it is contributing to the opening of the output gap and to contain prices pressures. The Committee also highlights risks stemming from the instability in the prices of in natura products and grains, which manifest, for example, in the dynamics of wholesale prices. 
29. The Committee considers that the recovery in domestic economic activity has materialized gradually, on the other hand, it highlights that the main scenario encompasses more intense pace of activity in this semester and next year. The Committee identifies decrease in the probability of extreme events in international financial markets, but, at the same time, it argues that the external environment remains complex, given the lack of a final solution for the European financial crisis, and the risks associated to the ongoing deleveraging process – of banks, households and government - in the main economic blocks. Since the last Committee meeting, although the inflation prospective scenario has been negatively impacted by supply shocks related to domestic and foreign climatic events in the short term, it maintained favorable signs for longer periods. Thus, the Committee also notes that, according to the main scenario adopted, inflation tends to move towards the target path. 
30. In this context, the Copom unanimously decided to reduce the Selic rate to 7.50% p.a., without bias. 
32. The Copom evaluates that domestic demand tends to show robustness, especially household consumption, largely due to the effects of stimulus factors, such as income growth and moderate credit expansion. This scenario tends to prevail in this and in the upcoming semesters, when domestic demand will be impacted by the effects of monetary policy actions recently implemented, which are, in short, lagged and cumulative. For the Committee, these effects, the programs of public services concession and the gradual recovery of confidence create good prospects for investment in this and in the upcoming semesters. The Committee considers that recent initiatives indicate scenario of neutrality of the public sector results. The Committee also notes that the fragile international scenario represents as an important factor restraining aggregate demand. These elements and quasi fiscal developments are important parts of the context in which future monetary policy decisions will be taken, aiming to ensure the timely convergence of inflation to the targets path. 
33. The Copom understands that the Brazilian economy has experienced significant structural changes, which determined retreat in the interest rates in general and, in particular, in the neutral rate. Among the factors that support this view, it bears highlighting the reduction of risk premia, a direct consequence of the accomplishment of the inflation target for the eighth consecutive year, of the macroeconomic stability and of institutional improvements. Moreover, the process of interest rates reduction was favored by changes in the structure of the financial and capital markets, by the credit market deepening, as well as by the generation of primary surpluses consistent with the maintenance of decreasing trend for the public debt-to-GDP ratio. For the Committee, all these changes are characterized by a high degree of persistence – although, due to the economic cycles themselves, specific and temporary reversions may occur – and contribute for the Brazilian economy’s current solid indicators of solvency and liquidity. 
34. The Copom also considers that the increase in the supply of external savings and the reduction of its funding cost have contributed to the reduction of the domestic interest rates, including the neutral rate, which, according to the Committee's assessment, are largely permanent developments. 