1. Monthly inflation measured by the Extended Consumer Price Index (IPCA) stood at 0.59% in October, 0.02 percentage points (p.p.) above the registered in September. As a consequence, twelve-month trailing inflation reached 5.45%, compared to 6.97% in October 2011. Market prices changed 6.23% in the twelve months through October (7.24% in October 2011), and regulated prices, 3.23% (6.34% in October 2011). Among market prices, the prices of tradable goods increased 4.00% in the twelve months through October (5.87% in October 2011), and the prices of non-tradable goods, 8.27% (8.41% in October 2011). The prices of food and beverages group, still impacted by domestic and external weather-related factors, increased by 1.36% in October (0.56% in October 2011) and reached 10.40% in twelve months. The prices of services rose 0.51% in September and in October, and reached 7.99% in twelve months (8.94% in October 2011). In short, services inflation still remains at high levels and the pressures in the food and beverages segment are decreasing. 
2. The average of the underlying inflation measures calculated by the BCB has moved from 0.47% in September to 0.51% in October. On its turn, on a twelve-month trailing basis, the average change of the five core inflation measures moved from 5.23% in September to 5.25% in October. The smoothed trimmed means IPCA core inflation moved from 0.49%, in September, to 0.54% in October, while the non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation changed from 0.49% to 0.46% in the same period. Similarly, the double weight core inflation increased from 0.51% in September to 0.55% in October. At the same time, core inflation by exclusion, which excludes ten household food and fuels items, increased from 0.47% in September to 0.51% in October, and the core inflation by exclusion of regulated prices and household food changed from 0.39% in September to 0.48% in October. 
3. Inflation measured by the General Price Index (IGP-DI), decreased 0.31% in October, after increasing by 0.88% in September, resulting, on a twelve-month trailing basis, in 7.41% inflation (6.78% in October 2011). The main component of this indicator, the Wholesale Price Index (IPA), changed 7.92% in the twelve months through October, influenced by strong increase in the agricultural sector (17.21%), which was, on its turn, impacted by supply shocks. According to the breakdown by stage of production, there were increases in the prices of raw materials (9.27%), intermediate goods (9.00%) and final goods (5.48%), according to the same comparison basis. Inflation measured by the Consumer Price Index (IPC), the second most important component of the IGP-DI, stood at 5.97% in the twelve months through October (6.78% in October 2011). The Civil Construction National Index (INCC), component with the lowest weight in the IGP-DI, changed 7.47%, in twelve months, partially driven by the increase in labor cost. On its turn, the Producer/Manufacturing Industry Price Index (IPP/IT), calculated by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), increased 0.72% in September (0.52% in August), and 6.99% in twelve months. The Copom considers that the effects of the behavior of wholesale prices on consumer inflation will depend on the current and prospective demand conditions and on the price setters' expectations regarding the future inflation path. 
4. The Economic Activity Index of the BCB (IBC-Br) incorporates estimates for the monthly production of the three sectors of the economy, as well as for taxes on products, and constitutes important coincident indicator of economic activity. Considering seasonally adjusted data, the IBC-Br decreased by 0.5% in September, after increasing by 1.0% in August. As a consequence, the indicator increased 1.2% in the third quarter, quarter-over-quarter, and 1.8% year-over-year. Therefore, the twelve-month accumulated growth stood at 1.1% in September. On its turn, the Consumer Confidence Index (ICC), from the Getúlio Vargas Foundation (FGV), retreated in November, although it stands above the recent historical average of the index. On the other hand, the Services Sector Confidence Index (ICS) registered the third consecutive increase in November. Still according to the FGV, the Industry Confidence Index (ICI) retreated in November, according to the seasonally adjusted series, after three consecutive monthly increases. According to survey carried out by the IBGE, grains production should grow by 1.5% this year. For 2013, projections point to 5.1% expansion. 
5. Industrial activity retreated by 1% in September, after expanding by three consecutive months, according to the series seasonally adjusted by the IBGE. Industrial production decreased in 16 of the 27 branches of activity. Year-over-year, industrial production fell 3.8% in September and 3.1% on a twelve-month accumulated basis, despite the 1.0% growth in the third quarter this year. According to the National Confederation of Industry (CNI), real revenues in the manufacturing industry decreased by 0.5% in September, year-over-year, and the number of hours worked retreated by 3.8%. As a consequence, real revenues grew by 3.1% between January and September, year-over-year, and the number of hours worked decreased by 2.0%. 
6. Among the industry use categories, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, the production of durable consumer goods decreased by 1.4% in September, after three months of positive changes. The production of semi-durable and nondurable consumer goods stood stable in September, while the production of capital goods and intermediate goods retreated 0.6% and 1.1%, respectively. Regarding the twelve-month accumulated growth through September, there were decreases in the production of durable consumer goods (-7.0%), semi-durable and non-durable consumer goods (-0.7%), capital goods (-9.6%) and intermediate goods (-1.9%). 
7. The unemployment rate for the six metropolitan areas covered by the Monthly Employment Survey (PME), without seasonal adjustment, was estimated at 5.3%, 0.5 p.p. below the rate recorded in October 2011. According to the series seasonally adjusted by the BCB, the unemployment rate changed from 5.5% in September to 5.4% in October. The occupation level – which represents the share of occupied people relative to the share of people at working age – reached a record high for the series in October (55.0%). Still according to the PME, the average real income rose 4.6% in October, year-over-year. On its turn, real payroll increased 7.8% compared to October 2011. Data released by the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) show that, in October, 67.0 thousand formal jobs were created (126.1 thousand in October 2011). The sectors that contributed the most to this increase, in absolute terms, were trade and services. In short, the set of available data indicates a heated labor market, although with some signs of moderation at the margin. 
8. According to the retail monthly survey (PMC) from IBGE, retail sales volume increased 8.5% in September, year-over-year, and broad retail sales increased 2.0%, according to the same comparison basis. Month-on-month, retail sales expanded by 0.3% in September, according to the seasonally adjusted series, and broad retail sales fell by 9.2% - partially due to the reversion of gains, which happened in August, and which stemmed from fiscal stimuli to the vehicles segment. As a consequence, the broad retail sales growth accumulated in the twelve months through September stood at 6.6% in September, with expansion in all ten sectors surveyed, with highlights for office, computer and communication material and equipment (17.9%) and furniture and appliances (13.3%). The Trade Confidence Index (ICOM), measured by the FGV, increased for the third consecutive month in October, with improvement in the perception of current situation and in expectations. For the upcoming months, the retail sales trajectory will continue to be influenced by governmental transfers, by the pace of real payroll growth and by moderate credit expansion. 
9. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry, calculated by the FGV, without seasonal adjustment, slightly retreated in November to 85.2%, standing 0.7 p.p. above the level observed in November 2011. According to the seasonally adjusted series calculated by the FGV, the Nuci stood at 84.0% in November, 0.7 p.p. above the level recorded in November 2011 and 2.7 p.p. below the record high of the series recorded in June 2008. Capacity utilization intensified in the consumer goods sector throughout the last months, and reached 86.8% in November. In the sectors of capital goods, intermediate goods and construction inputs, the levels stood at 80.9%, 85.3% and 90.3%, respectively. 
10. The trade balance on a twelve-month accumulated basis retreated to US$21.8 billion in October. This result stemmed from US$246.3 billion in exports and US$224.5 billion in imports, associated to changes of -1.8% and 2.2%, respectively, compared to the previous twelve months. On its turn, the current account deficit in the same period reached US$52.2 billion in October, equivalent to 2.3% of GDP, while foreign direct investment totaled US$66.0 billion in the twelve months through October, equivalent to 2.9% of GDP, surpassing the need for external financing. 
11. Global economy faces a period of above-than-usual uncertainty, with prospects of low growth for a prolonged period, despite the recent accommodation in the volatility and risk aversion indicators. High unemployment rates for a long period, coupled with the implementation of fiscal adjustments, the limited space for countercyclical actions and political uncertainties are translated into projections of low growth for mature economies, mainly in Europe. The compound leading indicator released by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), related to September, indicates stabilization in the growth of the United States (US) and China and some deterioration in the Euro Area and in Japan. The disaggregated indicators of the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) for October, as well as the preliminary results for November, suggest moderate global activity, mainly in the manufacturing sector, despite signaling growth in the US and in the main emerging economies. Regarding monetary policy, advanced economies persist with strongly accommodative stances. Core inflation measures have remained at moderate levels in the US, in the Euro Area and in Japan. In emerging economies, in general, the monetary policy bias is expansionist, which combines, in some cases, with other countercyclical policies. 
12. The price of Brent oil barrel has remained above US$110. It bears highlighting that the even higher geopolitical complexity that involves the oil sector tends to heighten the volatile behavior of prices, which is also a reflex of the low predictability of some global demand components and of the dependency of supply growth on long term risky investment projects. As measured by the Commodity Research Bureau (CRB), since the last Copom meeting, international prices of metallic commodities have remained stable, while those of agricultural commodities have retreated 1.7%. Therefore, relative to the record highs observed in April 2011, the changes reached -21.7% and -14.2%, respectively. On its turn, the Food Price Index, calculated by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), accumulates a fall of 10.3% until October, compared to the peak recorded in February 2011. In the recent past, the high volatility observed for the commodities prices was influenced by the abundant global liquidity, in a context where financial markets adjust to new expectations for growth and to volatility in FX markets. 
13. The identified shocks, and their impacts, were reassessed according to the new set of available information. The scenario considered in the simulations was based on the following assumptions: 
a) the projected adjustment for gasoline, for 2012, was maintained at 0%, the same value considered at the October Copom meeting, 
b) the projected adjustment for electricity, for 2012, was maintained at 1.4%, the same value considered at the October Copom meeting, 
c) the projected adjustment for 2012 for bottled gas, for 2012, increased to 3.5%, up from 0% considered at the October Copom meeting, 
d) The projected adjustment for fixed telephone tariff, for 2012, was reduced to -1.6%, down from -1.3% considered at the October Copom meeting, 
e) the projected adjustment, based on individual items, for the set of regulated prices inflation accumulated in 2012, was reduced to 3.4%, down from 3.6%, considered at the October Copom meeting, and 
f) the projected adjustment for the set of regulated prices accumulated in 2013 was maintained at 2.4%, the same value considered at the October Copom meeting, for 2014, the projection is 4.5%. These projections are based on endogenous determination models for regulated prices, which compute, among other factors, seasonal components, market prices inflation, and the inflation measured by the IGP (General Price Index). 
14. The projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, based on the 360-day swap rates, on the baseline scenario, estimates -9 bps, 40 bps and 30 bps spreads for the fourth quarter of 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. 
15. Regarding fiscal policy, projections assume the achievement in 2012 of the public sector primary surplus around 3.10% of GDP, with adjustments. Furthermore, as a working hypothesis, a primary surplus around 3.10% of GDP for 2013, without adjustments, is accepted, according to parameters set out in the Budget Guidelines Law (LDO) - 2013. For 2014, as a working hypothesis, a primary surplus of 3.10% of GDP is accepted, without adjustments. 
16. The set of projections incorporates the estimated effects of the reduction in the neutral interest rate identified over the last years. 
17. Since the last Copom meeting, the median of the expectations compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations and Special Studies Department (Gerin) for the 2012 IPCA increased from 5.42% to 5.43%. For 2013, the median of inflation expectations decreased from 5.44% to 5.40%. Specifically for banks, asset managers and other institutions (real sector companies, brokers, consultancies and others), the median of expectations for the 2012 IPCA changed from 5.39%, 5.44% and 5.40% to 5.41%, 5.43% and 5.43%, respectively. For 2013, the median changed from 5.47%, 5.51% and 5.40% to 5.34%, 5.46% and 5.39%, in the same order. 
18. The baseline scenario assumes the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$2.10/US$1.00 and the Selic rate at 7.25% p.a. during the forecast period. Under this scenario, the projection for the 2012 inflation increased relative to the figure considered at the October Copom meeting and stands above the 4.50% midpoint target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). According to the market scenario, which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin in the period immediately prior to the Copom meeting, 2012 IPCA inflation forecast increased and stands above the midpoint inflation target. For 2013, the inflation projection remained stable in both scenarios – also above the midpoint target in both cases. For 2014, the inflation forecast is around the midpoint inflation target in both scenarios. 
19. The Copom evaluates that monetary policy should contribute to the consolidation of a favorable longer-term macroeconomic environment. In this respect, the Copom reassures that, under the inflation targeting regime, it guides its decisions according to BCB projected inflation and based on the analysis of alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine prices dynamics. The Copom also understands that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to reduce uncertainties regarding the future behavior of headline inflation, facilitate the assessment of scenarios by the monetary authority, as well as help the process of coordination of economic agents’ expectations, particularly price setters’. Additionally, it is noteworthy that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to intensify the effects of monetary policy actions, enabling them to affect in a more long-lasting manner the dynamics of headline inflation in the future. Although the Copom recognizes that other macroeconomic policy actions may influence the prices trajectory, it reaffirms its view that it is particularly under the responsibility of the monetary policy to remain especially vigilant, to guarantee that pressures detected in shorter horizons do not spread to longer horizons. 
20. International evidence, ratified by the Brazilian experience, indicates that high inflation rates lead to the increase in risk premia, both for private and public funding, and to the shortening of planning horizons, both for households and companies. Consequently, high inflation rates reduce investments and economic growth potential, in addition to presenting regressive effects on income distribution. In other words, high inflation rates do not originate any lasting results for economic and employment growth, on the contrary, they create permanent damage to these variables in the medium and long terms. Therefore, the strategy adopted by the Copom aims to ensure the convergence of inflation towards the targets path, which requires that possible deviations from the target path be promptly corrected. Such strategy takes into account the time lags in the transmission mechanism and is the most adequate to deal with the uncertainty inherent to the process of monetary policy formulation and implementation. 
21. The Copom considers that, since its last meeting, the risks to global financial stability have remained high, particularly those deriving from the ongoing deleveraging process observed in the main economic blocks. In this context, despite identifying a decrease in the probability of occurrence of extreme events in international financial markets, the Copom considers that the external environment remains complex. The Copom understands that, overall, the prospects of moderate global activity have remained unchanged. It also notes that, in mature economies, there seems to be limited leeway for monetary policy actions, and a scenario of fiscal restraint also prevails, in this and in the upcoming years. On the other hand, in important emerging economies, the pace of activity has intensified, supported by the resilience of domestic demand. The Copom also highlights the evidences of moderation of localized price pressures in agricultural commodities segment, which had arisen between the second and third quarters of the year and were a consequence of an unfavorable supply shock. 
22. The Copom considers that the prospects for domestic economic activity are favorable, in this and in the upcoming semesters, with some asymmetry among the several sectors. This assessment is supported by signs that point to moderate expansion of credit supply, both for individuals and corporations, and by the fact that the consumers’ confidence and, in a lower scale, the businessmen’s confidence, stand at a high level. The Committee believes, additionally, that the domestic activity will continue to be favored by public transfers, as well as by labor market force, which is reflected in historically low unemployment rates and in wage growth, despite some accommodation at the margin. 
23. The Copom notes that the main inflation scenario considers the materialization of the assumed trajectories regarding fiscal variables. It is noteworthy that the generation of primary surpluses in line with the working hypotheses considered for inflation projections, in addition to contributing to reduce the mismatch between supply and demand growth rates, will strengthen the reduction trend of the public debt-to-GDP ratio and the positive perception regarding the macroeconomic environment in the medium and long terms. 
24. The Copom highlights that its main scenario also considers moderate expansion in the credit market. Still about the credit market, the Committee considers opportune the initiatives with the aim of moderating the concession of subsidies through credit operations. 
25. The Copom emphasizes that its main scenario includes prospects for stronger economic activity in this and in the upcoming semesters and limited risks stemming from the persistence of the mismatch, in specific segments, between supply and demand growth rates. However, it highlights the narrow idleness margin in the labor market, despite the signs of moderation in this market, and considers that, under such circumstances, an important risk stems from the possibility of concession of wages increases incompatible with productivity growth and their negative impacts over inflation dynamics. On the other hand, the Copom notes that the level of installed capacity utilization is below the long-term trend, in other words, it is contributing to the opening of the output gap and to contain prices pressures. Furthermore, the Copom emphasizes that the outlook for the upcoming semesters indicates moderation in the price dynamics of some real and financial assets. Under the Committee’s view, evidences such as the accommodation of wholesale prices indicate the cooling of pressures on consumer prices, resulting from the instability in the prices of in natura products and grains observed in the last months. 
26. In short, the Copom considers that the prospective scenario for inflation shows favorable signs and reaffirms its view that inflation accumulated in twelve months tends to move towards the target path, even in a non-linear way. 
27. In this context, the Copom unanimously decided to maintain the Selic rate at 7.25% p.a., without bias. 
28. The following members of the Committee voted for this decision: Alexandre Antonio Tombini, Governor, Aldo Luiz Mendes, Altamir Lopes, Anthero de Moraes Meirelles, Carlos Hamilton Vasconcelos Araújo, Luiz Awazu Pereira da Silva, Luiz Edson Feltrim and Sidnei Corrêa Marques. 
29. The Copom evaluates that domestic demand tends to show robustness, especially regarding household consumption, largely due to the effects of stimulus factors, such as income growth and moderate credit expansion. This scenario tends to prevail in this and in the upcoming semesters, when domestic demand will be impacted by the effects of monetary policy actions recently implemented, which are, in short, lagged and cumulative. For the Committee, these effects, the programs of public services concession and the gradual recovery of businessmen’s confidence create good prospects for investment in this and in the upcoming semesters. The Committee considers that recent initiatives indicate the balance of the public sector moving from a position of neutrality to expansionism. On the other hand, the Committee notes that the fragile international scenario represents an important factor restraining aggregate demand. These elements and the developments in the quasi fiscal field and in the assets market are important parts of the context in which future monetary policy decisions will be taken, aiming to ensure the timely convergence of inflation to the targets path. 
30. The Copom understands that the Brazilian economy has experienced significant structural changes, which determined retreat in interest rates in general and, in particular, in the neutral rate. Among the factors that support this view, it bears highlighting the reduction of risk premia, a direct consequence of the accomplishment of the inflation target for the eighth consecutive year, of the macroeconomic stability and of institutional improvements. Moreover, the process of interest rates reduction was favored by changes in the structure of the financial and capital markets, by the credit market deepening, as well as by the generation of primary surpluses consistent with the maintenance of decreasing trend for the public debt-to-GDP ratio. For the Committee, all these changes are characterized by a high degree of persistence – although, due to the economic cycles themselves, specific and temporary reversions may occur – and contribute for the Brazilian economy’s current solid indicators of solvency and liquidity. 
31. The Copom also considers that the increase in the supply of external savings and the reduction of its funding cost have contributed to the reduction of the domestic interest rates, including the neutral rate, which, according to the Committee's assessment, are largely permanent developments. 