1. Monthly inflation measured by the Extended Consumer Price Index (IPCA) reached 0.79% in December, 0.19 percentage points (p.p.) above the registered in November. As a consequence, inflation in 2012 reached 5.84%, compared to 6.50% in 2011, and for the ninth consecutive year it stood within the tolerance interval established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). Market prices changed 6.56% in the year (6.63% in 2011), and regulated prices, 3.65% (6.20% in 2011). Among market prices, the prices of tradable goods increased 4.47% (4.41% in 2011), and the prices of non-tradable goods, 8.46% (8.59% in 2011). The prices of food and beverages group, still impacted by domestic and external weather-related factors, increased by 1.03% in December and reached 9.86% in twelve months (7.19% in 2011). The prices of services rose 0.98% in December and 8.75% in twelve months (9.01% in 2011). In short, services inflation remains at high levels, and there are pressures in the food and beverages segment. 
2. The average of the underlying inflation measures calculated by the BCB has moved from 0.60% in November to 0.70% in December. On its turn, on a twelve-month trailing basis, the average change of the five core inflation measures moved from 5.37% in November to 5.60% in December. The smoothed trimmed means IPCA core inflation moved from 0.49% in November to 0.56% in December, while the non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation changed from 0.61% to 0.64% in the same period. Similarly, the double weight core inflation increased from 0.62% in November to 0.67% in December. At the same time, core inflation by exclusion, which excludes ten household food and fuels items, increased from 0.63% in November to 0.76% in December, and the core inflation by exclusion of regulated prices and household food changed from 0.64% in November to 0.88% in December. 
3. Inflation measured by the General Price Index (IGP-DI) increased 0.66% in December, increasing by 8.10% in 2012 (5.00% in 2011). The main component of this indicator, the Wholesale Price Index (IPA), changed 9.13% in 2012, influenced by strong increase in the agricultural sector (19.20%), which was, on its turn, impacted by supply shocks. According to the breakdown by stage of production, there were increases in the prices of raw materials (12.39%), intermediate goods (10.08%) and final goods (5.21%), according to the same comparison basis. Inflation measured by the Consumer Price Index (IPC), the second most important component of the IGP-DI, stood at 5.74% in 2012 (6.36% in 2011). The Civil Construction National Index (INCC), component with the lowest weight in the IGP-DI, changed 7.12% in the year, partially driven by the increase in labor cost. On its turn, the Producer/Manufacturing Industry Price Index (IPP/IT), calculated by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), increased 0.25% in November and 6.64% in twelve months. The Copom considers that the effects of the behavior of wholesale prices on consumer inflation will depend on the current and prospective demand conditions and on the price setters' expectations regarding the future inflation path. 
4. The Economic Activity Index of the BCB (IBC-Br) incorporates estimates for the monthly production of the three sectors of the economy, as well as for taxes on products, and constitutes important coincident indicator of economic activity. Considering seasonally adjusted data, the IBC-Br increased by 0.4% in October and in November. As a consequence, the indicator increased 0.5% between September and November, quarter-over-quarter, and 2.7% year-over-year, accumulating 1.7% in the twelve months through November. The Consumer Confidence Index (ICC), from the Getúlio Vargas Foundation (FGV), retreated for the third consecutive month in December, considering seasonally adjusted data, although it stands above the historical average of the index. On its turn, after three consecutive highs, the Services Sector Confidence Index (ICS) decreased in December, month-on-month. At the same time, the industrial businessmen confidence continues in a gradual recovery trajectory. According to the FGV, the Industry Confidence Index (ICI) increased in December, according to the seasonally adjusted series, boosted by significant improvement in expectations. In agriculture, prognosis carried out by the IBGE indicates that grains production should grow by 9.9% in 2013. 
5. Brazilian economy grew 0.6% in the third quarter, compared to the second quarter, when it had grown 0.2%, according to data seasonally adjusted and released by the IBGE. Year-over-year, GDP growth in the third quarter reached 0.9%, up from 0.5% in the second quarter. On the demand side, household consumption – greatest component of aggregate demand – continues robust and, at the margin, it increased by 0.9% in the third quarter and 3.4% relative to the same quarter of 2011 – thirty sixth consecutive expansion according to this comparison basis. Government consumption increased by 3.2% year-over-year (0.1% at the margin). On its turn, Fixed Capital Gross Formation (FCGF) retracted 5.6% relative to the third quarter of 2011 (-2.0% at the margin). The slow recovery in confidence partially explains why investments haven’t reacted yet to stimuli introduced in the economy. Regarding external trade, exports expanded by 0.2% and imports retreated by 6.5%, both at the margin. In particular, exports for Argentina, European Union and Japan were negatively impacted by the fragility of economic activity in these regions. 
6. The indicators of Credit Conditions, constructed by the Central Bank based on quarterly consultation held with representative institutions of each credit market segment, evidence, for the first quarter of 2013, compared to the last quarter of 2012, moderation in the pace of concessions approval to corporations, which is partially explained by seasonal factors. Regarding credit to individuals, the analysis suggests growth scenario for both consumer and housing segments, boosted by demand. 
7. Manufacturing activity decreased 0.6% in November, after a 0.1% increase in October, according to general industrial production data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE. Production declined in 15 of the 27 branches of activity. Thus, the average of the quarter ended in November was 0.3% higher than the one registered in the previous quarter. Year-over-year, industrial production decreased 1.0% in November and 2.5% in twelve months. According to data released by the National Confederation of Industry (CNI), revenues in the manufacturing industry increased 6.2% in October in real terms, compared to the same month of the previous year, and the number of worked hours increased 1.9%. In addition, real revenue increased 3.4% between January and October, compared to the same period of the previous year, and the number of worked hours decreased 1.6%, according to the same comparison basis. 
8. Among the industry use categories, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE and considering the month-on-month growth in November, the production of durable consumer goods changed -1.0%, the production of semi-durable and nondurable consumer goods, -0.1%, the production of capital goods, -1.1%, and the production of intermediate goods, -1.0%. Year-over-year, the production of durable consumer goods changed 6.0%, the production of semi-durable and nondurable consumer goods, 0.4%, the production of capital goods, -10.3%, and the production of intermediate goods, -1.0%. Regarding the twelve-month accumulated growth through November, the production of durable consumer goods changed -3.5%, the production of semi-durable and nondurable consumer goods, -0.3%, the production of capital goods, -10.7%, and the production of intermediate goods, -1.5%. 
9. The unemployment rate for the six metropolitan areas covered by the Monthly Employment Survey (PME), without seasonal adjustment, was estimated in 4.9% in November (5.2% in November 2011). According to BCB seasonally adjusted data, the unemployment rate changed from 5.4% in October to 5.3% in November. The significant reduction in the Working Age Population (WAP) growth rate during the last years has contributed to the process of reduction in the unemployment rates. On the other hand, the employment level – which represents the proportion of employed people compared to those in working age – reached a new record high for the series in November (55.3%). Still according to the PME, the average real income increased 5.3% in November, year-over- year. On its turn, real payroll, considering the average income of the employed population in the six metropolitan areas, increased 8.3% compared to November 2011. Data released by the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) show that, in November, 46.1 thousand formal jobs were created (42.7 thousand in November 2011). Commerce and services sectors registered positive balance, while the change was negative in the six remaining sectors. In short, the set of available data indicates that the labor market remains robust, although there are signs of moderation at the margin. 
10. According to the retail monthly survey (PMC) from IBGE, retail sales volume increased 8.4% in November, year-over-year, and broad retail sales increased 7.2%, according to the same comparison basis. Month-on-month, retail sales expanded by 0.3% in November, according to the seasonally adjusted series, and broad retail sales fell by -1.2% - partially due to the reversion of gains, which happened in October, and which stemmed from fiscal stimuli to the vehicles segment. As a consequence, the broad retail sales growth accumulated in the twelve months through November stood at 8.0%, with expansion in all ten sectors surveyed, with highlights for office, computer and communication material and equipment (14.8%) and furniture and appliances (13.0%). The Trade Confidence Index (ICOM), measured by the FGV, decreased in December, after increasing for four consecutive months, with improvement in the perception of current situation and retreat in expectations regarding the future. For the upcoming months, the retail sales trajectory will continue to be influenced by governmental transfers, by the pace of real payroll growth and by moderate credit expansion. 
11. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry, calculated by the FGV, without seasonal adjustment, retreated in December to 84.8% (84.1% in December 2011). According to the seasonally adjusted series calculated by the FGV, the Nuci stood at 84.1% in December (83.4% in December 2011). Over the last months, capacity utilization intensified in the consumer goods sector, and reached 87.0% in December (83.7% in December 2011). In the sectors of capital goods, intermediate goods and construction inputs, the levels stood at 82.0%, 84.9% and 88.4%, respectively. 
12. The trade balance ended 2012 with a US$19.4 billion surplus (US$29.8 billion in 2011). This result stemmed from US$242.6 billion in exports and US$233.1 billion in imports, associated to changes of -5.3% and -1.4%, respectively, compared to the previous year. On its turn, the current account deficit accumulated in twelve months reached US$51.8 billion in November, equivalent to 2.3% of GDP, while foreign direct investment totaled US$66.5 billion in the twelve months through November, equivalent to 2.9% of GDP, surpassing the need for external financing. 
13. Global economy continues to face a period of uncertainty, with prospects of low growth for a long period in important economies, despite the recent accommodation in the volatility and risk aversion indicators. High unemployment rates for a long period coupled with the implementation of fiscal adjustments, the limited space for countercyclical actions and political uncertainties are translated into projections of low growth for mature economies, mainly in Europe. The compound leading indicator released by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), related to November, continued to indicate stabilization in the growth of the United States (US) and China, as well as weak activity level in the Euro Area and in Japan. The disaggregated indicators of the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI), related to December, suggest some marginal improvement, especially in the US and in the main emerging economies, even with still moderate activity in the manufacturing sector. Regarding monetary policy, advanced economies persist with strongly accommodative stances. Inflation has remained at moderate levels in the US and in the Euro Area, and negative in Japan. Unconventional policy actions, announced in mature economies, tend to increase liquidity in their markets and contribute to the decrease in the likelihood of extreme events. In emerging economies, in general, the monetary policy bias is expansionist, which combines, in some cases, with other countercyclical policies. 
14. The price of Brent oil barrel has remained above US$110, since the previous meeting. It bears highlighting that the geopolitical complexity that involves the oil sector tends to heighten the volatile behavior of prices, which is also a reflex of the low predictability of some global demand components and of the dependency of supply growth on long term risky investment projects. As measured by the Commodity Research Bureau (CRB), since the last Copom meeting, international prices of metallic commodities have strongly increased (5.7%), while those of agricultural commodities have retreated 3.2%. On its turn, the Food Price Index, calculated by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), accumulates a fall of 0.7% in twelve months until December 2012. 
15. The identified shocks, and their impacts, were reassessed according to the new set of available information. The scenario considered in the simulations was based on the following assumptions: 
a) the projected adjustment for gasoline in 2013 is around 5%, 
b) the projected adjustment for electricity points to a decrease of nearly 11% (this estimate considers the direct impacts of the sector charges reductions recently announced, as well as ordinary tariff revisions planned for this year), 
c) fixed telephone tariff and bottled gas prices are projected to remain stable, for 2013, 
d) the projected adjustment, based on individual items, for the set of regulated prices inflation accumulated in 2013, was increased to 3.0%, up from 2.4%, considered at the November Copom meeting, and 
e) the projected adjustment for the set of regulated prices accumulated in 2014 was maintained at 4.5%, the same value considered at the November Copom meeting. This projection is based on endogenous determination models for regulated prices, which compute, among other factors, seasonal components, market prices inflation, and the inflation measured by the IGP (General Price Index). 
16. The projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, based on the 360-day swap rates, on the baseline scenario, estimates 41 bps and 21 bps spreads for the fourth quarter of 2013 and 2014, respectively. 
17. Regarding fiscal policy, projections assume the achievement in 2013 of the public sector primary surplus of R$ 155.9 billion, according to parameters set out in the Budget Guidelines Law (LDO) – 2013. For 2014, as a working hypothesis, a primary surplus of around 3.10% of GDP is accepted. 
18. The set of projections incorporates the estimated effects of the reduction in the neutral interest rate identified over the last years. 
19. Since the last Copom meeting, the median of the expectations compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations and Special Studies Department (Gerin) for the 2013 IPCA increased from 5.40% to 5.53%. For 2014, the median of inflation expectations remained stable at 5.50%. Specifically for banks, asset managers and other institutions (real sector companies, brokers, consultancies and others), the median of expectations for the 2013 IPCA changed from 5.34%, 5.46% and 5.39% to 5.52%, 5.54% and 5.56%, respectively. For 2014, the medians are 5.50%, 5.50% and 5.30%, in the same order. 
20. The baseline scenario assumes the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$2.05/US$1.00 and the Selic rate at 7.25% p.a. during the forecast period. Under this scenario, the projection for the 2013 inflation increased relative to the figure considered at the November Copom meeting and stands above the 4.50% midpoint target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). According to the market scenario, which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin in the period immediately prior to the Copom meeting, 2013 IPCA inflation forecast also increased and stands above the midpoint inflation target. For 2014, in both scenarios, the inflation forecast is slightly above the midpoint inflation target. 
21. The Copom evaluates that monetary policy should contribute to the consolidation of a favorable longer-term macroeconomic environment. In this respect, the Copom reassures that, under the inflation targeting regime, it guides its decisions according to BCB projected inflation and based on the analysis of alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine prices dynamics. The Copom also understands that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to reduce uncertainties regarding the future behavior of headline inflation, facilitate the assessment of scenarios by the monetary authority, as well as help the process of coordination of economic agents’ expectations, particularly price setters’. Additionally, it is noteworthy that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to intensify the effects of monetary policy actions, enabling them to affect in a more long-lasting manner the dynamics of headline inflation in the future. Although the Copom recognizes that other macroeconomic policy actions may influence the prices trajectory, it reaffirms its view that it is particularly under the responsibility of the monetary policy to remain especially vigilant, to guarantee that pressures detected in shorter horizons do not spread to longer horizons. 
22. International evidence, ratified by the Brazilian experience, indicates that high inflation rates lead to the increase in risk premia, both for private and public funding, and to the shortening of planning horizons, both for households and companies. Consequently, high inflation rates reduce investments and economic growth potential, in addition to presenting regressive effects on income distribution. In other words, high inflation rates do not originate any lasting results for economic and employment growth, on the contrary, they create permanent damage to these variables in the medium and long terms. Therefore, the strategy adopted by the Copom aims to ensure the convergence of inflation towards the targets path, which requires that possible deviations from the target path be promptly corrected. Such strategy takes into account the time lags in the transmission mechanism and is the most adequate to deal with the uncertainty inherent to the process of monetary policy formulation and implementation. 
23. The Copom understands that there were significant structural changes in the Brazilian economy, which determined retreat in interest rates in general and, in particular, in the neutral rate. Among the factors that support this view, it bears highlighting the reduction in risk premia, a direct consequence of the accomplishment of the inflation target for the ninth consecutive year, of the macroeconomic stability and of institutional improvements. Moreover, the process of interest rates reduction was favored by changes in the structure of financial and capital markets, by the credit market deepening, as well as by the generation of primary surpluses consistent with the maintenance of the decreasing trend for the public debt-to-GDP ratio. For the Committee, all these transformations are characterized by high degree of persistence - although, due to the economic cycles themselves, specific and temporary reversions may occur - and contribute for the Brazilian economy’s current solid indicators of solvency and liquidity. 
24. The Copom also evaluates that the increase in the supply of external savings and the reduction of its funding cost have contributed to the reduction of the domestic interest rates, including the neutral rate, which, according to the Committee's assessment, are largely permanent developments. 
25. The Copom considers that, since its last meeting, the risks to global financial stability remained high, particularly those derived from the ongoing deleveraging process in the major economic blocks. In this context, despite identifying decrease in the probability of occurrence of extreme events in international financial markets, the Copom considers that the external environment remains complex. The Committee evaluates that, in general, the prospects for moderate global activity remained unchanged. In mature economies, the space to use monetary policy seems to be limited and the fiscal restraint scenario prevails in this and in the next years. In important emerging economies, however, the activity pace has intensified, supported by the resilience of domestic demand. The Committee also highlights evidences of price pressures in metal commodity markets, to some extent, offset by moderation in segments of agricultural and energy commodities. 
26. The Copom evaluates that the pace of recovery in domestic economic activity - less intense than previously anticipated - is essentially due to limitations regarding the supply side. Given its nature, therefore, these difficulties cannot be addressed by monetary policy actions, which are, par excellence, demand control tools. By the way, despite the weakness of investment, which reflects, largely, the increased uncertainties and the slow recovery of confidence, domestic demand will continue to be driven by the lagged effects of monetary policy actions recently implemented, as well as by the moderate expansion of credit supply, both for individuals and corporate. The Copom believes, additionally, that domestic activity will continue to be favored by public transfers, as well as by the labor market vigor, which is reflected in historically low unemployment rates and in wage growth, despite some accommodation at the margin. 
27. The Copom observes that the main inflation scenario considers the materialization of the assumed trajectories regarding fiscal variables. It also notes that the generation of primary surpluses in line with the working hypotheses considered for inflation projections, in addition to contributing to reduce the mismatch between supply and demand growth rates, will strengthen the reduction trend of the public debt-to-GDP ratio and the positive perception regarding the macroeconomic environment in the medium and long terms. 
28. The Copom highlights that its main scenario also considers moderate expansion in the credit market. Still about the credit market, the Committee considers opportune initiatives with the aim of moderating the concessions of subsidies through credit operations. 
29. The Copom evaluates that the greater dispersion of consumer price increases recently observed and the reversal of tax exemptions, combined with seasonal pressures and pressures localized in the transportation segment, tend to contribute that inflation shows resistance in the short term. 
30. The Copom emphasizes that its main scenario includes more intense domestic activity pace in this year and limited risks, but which have recently intensified, regarding the mismatch, in specific segments, between supply and demand growth rates. The Committee highlights the narrow idleness margin in the labor market, despite the signs of moderation in this market, and it considers that, under such circumstances, a significant risk stems from the possibility of concession of wages increases incompatible with productivity growth and their negative impacts over inflation dynamics. On the other hand, the Copom notes that the level of installed capacity utilization is below the long-term trend, in other words, it is contributing to the opening of the output gap and to contain prices pressures. Furthermore, the Copom emphasizes that the outlook for the upcoming semesters indicates moderation in the prices dynamics of some real and financial assets. 
31. In short, the Copom highlights that the balance of risks for inflation worsened in the short term and that the recovery in domestic activity was less intense than expected, as well as that some complexity still involves the international scenario. 
32. In this context, the Copom unanimously decided to maintain the Selic rate at 7.25% p.a., without bias. 
33. The following members of the Committee voted for this decision: Alexandre Antonio Tombini (Governor), Aldo Luiz Mendes, Altamir Lopes, Anthero de Moraes Meirelles, Carlos Hamilton Vasconcelos Araújo, Luiz Awazu Pereira da Silva, Luiz Edson Feltrim and Sidnei Corrêa Marques. 
34. The Copom evaluates that domestic demand tends to show robustness, especially household consumption, largely due to the effects of stimulus factors, such as income growth and moderate credit expansion. This scenario tends to prevail in this and in the upcoming semesters, when domestic demand will be impacted by the effects of monetary policy actions recently implemented, which are, in short, lagged and cumulative. For the Committee, these effects, the programs of public services concession, the inventories at adjusted levels and the gradual recovery of businessmen’s confidence create prospects for the investment resumption. The Committee considers that recent initiatives indicate the balance of the public sector in expansionary position. On the other hand, the Committee notes that the fragile international scenario represents an aggregate demand restraining factor restraining aggregate demand. These elements and the developments in the quasi fiscal field and in the assets market are important parts of the context in which future monetary policy decisions will be taken, aiming to ensure the timely convergence of inflation to the targets path. 