1. Monthly inflation measured by the Extended Consumer Price Index (IPCA) reached 0.86% in January, 0.07 percentage points (p.p.) above the registered in December. As a consequence, inflation in twelve months reached 6.15% in January (compared to 6.22% in January 2012). Market prices changed 7.20% in twelve months (6.42% until January 2012), and regulated prices, 2.94% (5.71% until January 2012). Among market prices, the prices of tradable goods increased 5.54%, and the prices of non-tradable goods, 8.69%. The prices of food and beverages group, impacted by weather-related factors, increased by 1.99% in January and reached 11.09% in twelve months (6.88% until January 2012). The prices of services rose 0.92% in January and 8.61% in twelve months (9.20% until January 2012). In short, services inflation remains at high levels, and there are pressures in the food and beverages segment. 
2. The average of the underlying inflation measures, calculated by the BCB, has moved from 0.70% in December to 0.73% in January. On its turn, on a twelve-month trailing basis, the average change of the core inflation measures moved from 5.60% in December to 5.82% in January. In this context, the smoothed trimmed means IPCA core inflation moved from 0.56% in December to 0.73% in January, while the non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation changed from 0.64% to 0.77% in the same period. Similarly, the double weight core inflation slightly decreased, from 0.67% in December to 0.65% in January. At the same time, core inflation by exclusion, which excludes ten household food and fuels items, decreased more strongly, from 0.76% in December to 0.63% in January, and the core inflation by exclusion of regulated prices and household food changed from 0.88% in December to 0.87% in January. 
3. Inflation measured by the General Price Index (IGP-DI) increased 0.20% in February, after increasing by 0.31% in January, and it accumulates change of 8.24% in the twelve months through February (3.38% in the twelve months through February 2012). In this period, the main component of this indicator, the Wholesale Price Index (IPA), changed 9.24%, mainly influenced by pressures stemming from the agricultural sector (15.45% change), which was impacted by supply shocks. According to the breakdown by stage of production, there were increases in the prices of raw materials (10.03%), intermediate goods (9.71%) and final goods (7.97%), according to the same comparison basis. Inflation measured by the Consumer Price Index (IPC), the second most important component of the IGP-DI, stood at 6.04% in twelve months through February (5.62% in the twelve months through February 2012). The Civil Construction National Index (INCC), component with the lowest weight in the IGP-DI, changed 7.18% in the period (8.02% in the twelve months through February 2012), partially driven by the increase in labor cost. On its turn, the Producer/Manufacturing Industry Price Index (IPP/IT), calculated by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), despite the 0.04% retreat in January, increased 7.69% in twelve months. The Copom considers that the effects of the behavior of wholesale prices on consumer inflation will depend on the current and prospective demand conditions and on the price setters' expectations regarding the future inflation path. 
4. The Economic Activity Index of the BCB (IBC-Br) incorporates estimates for the monthly production of the three sectors of the economy, as well as for taxes on products, and constitutes important coincident indicator of economic activity. Considering seasonally adjusted data, the IBC-Br increased by 0.3% in December, after increasing by 0.6% in November. As a consequence, the indicator increased 0.6% in the fourth quarter of 2012, quarter-over-quarter, and 3.0% year-over-year, accumulating 1.6% in the year, compared to 2.7% in 2011 and 7.6% in 2010. The Consumer Confidence Index (ICC), from the Getúlio Vargas Foundation (FGV), retreated for the fifth consecutive month in February, considering seasonally adjusted data, although it stands above the historical average of the index. On its turn, the Services Sector Confidence Index (ICS) decreased in February, month-on-month, after increasing in January. At the same time, the industrial businessmen confidence continues in a gradual recovery trajectory. According to the FGV, the Industry Confidence Index (ICI) slightly increased in February, according to the seasonally adjusted series, boosted by gradual improvement in expectations. Regarding agriculture, the Agricultural Production Systematic Assessment, carried out by the IBGE, indicates that grains production should grow by 13.1% in 2013, relative to the 2012 harvest. 
5. Brazilian economy grew 0.6% in the fourth quarter, quarter-over-quarter, after growing by 0.4% in the third quarter, according to data seasonally adjusted and released by the IBGE. Year-over-year, GDP growth in the fourth quarter reached 1.4%, up from 0.9% in the third quarter. Therefore, the Brazilian economy grew 0.9% in 2012, after increasing by 2.7% in the previous year and 7.5% in 2010. On the demand side, household consumption – the greatest component of aggregate demand – continues robust and, at the margin, it increased by 1.2% in the fourth quarter and 3.9% relative to the same quarter of 2011 – thirty seventh consecutive expansion according to this comparison basis. Government consumption increased by 0.8% at the margin and 3.1% relative to the same quarter last year. After decreasing by four quarters, Fixed Capital Gross Formation (FCGF) increased 0.5%, at the margin, but relative to the fourth quarter of 2011, it decreased 4.5%. As a consequence, investment rate in 2012 stood at 18.1% of GDP. Regarding external trade, exports expanded by 4.5% and imports, 8.1%, both at the margin, and 2.1% and 0.4%, respectively, relative to the same quarter of 2011. 
6. Manufacturing activity was stable in December, after a 1.3% decrease in November, according to the general industrial production series seasonally adjusted by the IBGE. Production increased in 13 of the 27 branches of activity. Thus, the average production recorded in the quarter ended in December was 0.3% lower than the one registered in the previous quarter. In 2012, industrial production stood 2.7% below the one registered in 2011. According to data released by the National Confederation of Industry (CNI), real revenue in the manufacturing industry decreased 1.2% in December, compared to the same month of the previous year, and the number of worked hours decreased 2.4%. In 2012, real revenue increased 2.4%, and the number of worked hours decreased 1.5%, according to the same comparison basis. 
7. Among the industry use categories, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, and considering the month-on-month growth in December, the production of durable consumer goods changed -0.5%, the production of semi-durable and nondurable consumer goods, 0.9%, the production of capital goods, -0.8%, and the production of intermediate goods, -0.1%. Year-over-year, the production of durable consumer goods changed -3.5%, the production of semi-durable and nondurable consumer goods, -0.8%, the production of capital goods, -14.7%, and the production of intermediate goods, -2.5%. As a consequence, in 2012, the production of durable consumer goods changed 3.4%, the production of semi-durable and nondurable consumer goods, -0.3%, the production of capital goods, -11.8%, and the production of intermediate goods, -1.7%. 
8. The unemployment rate for the six metropolitan areas covered by the Monthly Employment Survey (PME), without seasonal adjustment, was estimated at 5.4% in January (5.5% in January 2012). According to BCB seasonally adjusted data, the unemployment rate in January remained unchanged at 5.5%. The reduction in the Working Age Population (WAP) growth rate during the last years has contributed to the process of reduction in the unemployment rates. On its turn, the proportion of formal workers in the private sector reached 50.1% of the occupied population - a new record high for the historical series. Still according to the PME, the average real income increased 2.4% in January, year-over- year. On its turn, real payroll increased 5.3% year-over-year. Data released by the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) show that, in January, 28.9 thousand formal jobs were created (118.9 thousand in January 2012), with positive results in six out of eight sectors of economic activity and contribution of 43.4 thousand jobs in industry. In short, the set of available data indicates narrow idleness margin in the labor market and accommodation at the margin. 
9. According to the retail monthly survey (PMC) from IBGE, retail sales volume increased 5.0% in December, year-over-year, both for retail sales and for broad retail sales. Month-on-month, retail sales changed by -0.5% in December, according to the seasonally adjusted series, and broad retail sales increased by 1.3%. As a consequence, the broad retail sales growth rate in 2012 stood at 8.0%, with expansion in all ten sectors surveyed, with highlights for furniture and appliances (12.3%) and pharmaceutical, medical, orthopedic and perfumery articles (10.2%). On its turn, the Trade Confidence Index (ICOM), measured by the FGV, pointed to the third consecutive retreat in the quarter ended in February. For the upcoming months, the retail sales trajectory will continue to be influenced by governmental transfers, by the pace of real payroll growth and by moderate credit expansion. 
10. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry, calculated by the FGV, without seasonal adjustment, increased in February to 83.3% (82.9% in February 2012). According to the seasonally adjusted series calculated by the FGV, the Nuci stood at 84.1% in February. Capacity utilization in the consumer goods sector, according to the seasonally adjusted series, retreated to 84.4%. In the sectors of capital goods, intermediate goods and construction inputs, the levels stood at 82.4%, 84.9% and 89.5%, respectively. 
11. The twelve-month trailing trade balance result retreated to US$13.7 billion in February. This result stemmed from US$239.9 billion in exports and US$226.2 billion in imports, associated to changes of -7.1% and -1.5%, respectively, compared to the previous twelve months. On its turn, the current account deficit accumulated in twelve months reached US$58.6 billion in January, equivalent to 2.6% of GDP, while the foreign direct investment totaled US$63.6 billion in the twelve months through January, equivalent to 2.8% of GDP, surpassing the need for external financing. 
12. In the global economy, prospects for low growth for a long period in important advanced economies remain and there was some accommodation in the volatility and risk aversion indicators. High unemployment rates, coupled with the fiscal consolidation and political uncertainties, are translated into projections of low growth for advanced economies, mainly in Europe. The compound leading indicator released by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), related to December, continues to indicate growth in the United States (US), growth recovery in Japan and stability in the activity levels in the Euro Area. On its turn, the disaggregated indicators of the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI), related to January, as well as the preliminary results of February, indicate improvement at the margin in the US and in important emerging economies. Regarding monetary policy, advanced economies have persisted with strongly accommodative stances. In emerging economies, in general, monetary policy is expansionist. Inflation has remained at moderate levels in the US and in the Euro Area, and negative in Japan. 
13. The price of Brent oil barrel has remained above US$110, since the previous Copom meeting. It bears highlighting that the geopolitical complexity that involves the oil sector tends to heighten the volatile behavior of prices, which is also a reflex of the low predictability of some global demand components and of the dependency of supply growth on long term risky investment projects. As measured by the Commodity Research Bureau (CRB), since the last Copom meeting, the international prices of metallic and agricultural commodities have decreased respectively 2.3% and 4.8%. On its turn, the Food Price Index, calculated by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), accumulates a fall of 1.4% in twelve months through January 2013. 
14. The identified shocks, and their impacts, were reassessed according to the new set of available information. The scenario considered in the simulations was based on the following assumptions: 
a) the projected adjustment for gasoline price in 2013, was maintained at 5%, unchanged relative to the last Copom meeting, 
b) the projected adjustment for household electricity price points to a decrease of nearly 15%, down from 11% considered at the January Copom meeting. This estimate considers the direct impacts of the sector charges reductions recently announced, as well as readjustments and ordinary tariff revisions planned for this year, 
c) fixed telephone tariff and bottled gas prices are projected to remain stable, for 2013, 
d) the projected adjustment, based on individual items, for the set of regulated prices inflation accumulated in 2013, was decreased to 2.7%, down from 3.0%, considered at the January Copom meeting, and 
e) the projected adjustment for the set of regulated prices accumulated in 2014 was maintained at 4.5%, the same value considered at the January Copom meeting. This projection is based on endogenous determination models for regulated prices, which compute, among other factors, seasonal components, market prices inflation, and the inflation measured by the IGP (General Price Index). 
15. The projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, based on the 360-day swap rates, on the baseline scenario, estimates 45 bps and 32 bps spreads for the fourth quarter of 2013 and 2014, respectively. 
16. Regarding fiscal policy, projections assume the achievement in 2013 of the public sector primary surplus of R$ 155.9 billion, according to parameters set out in the Budget Guidelines Law (LDO) – 2013. For 2014, as a working hypothesis, a primary surplus of around 3.10% of GDP is accepted. 
17. The set of projections incorporates the estimated effects of the reduction in the neutral interest rate identified over the last years. 
18. Since the last Copom meeting, the median of the expectations compiled by Investor Relations and Special Studies Department (Gerin) for the 2013 IPCA increased from 5.53% to 5.70%. For 2014, the median of inflation expectations remained stable at 5.50%. Specifically for banks, asset managers and other institutions (real sector companies, brokers, consultancies and others), the median of expectations for the 2013 IPCA changed from 5.52%, 5.54% and 5.56% to 5.67%, 5.73% and 5.61%, respectively. For 2014, the median of expectations changed from 5.50%, 5.50% and 5.30% to 5.55%, 5.80% and 5.38%, in the same order. 
19. The baseline scenario assumes the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$2.00/US$1.00 and the Selic rate at 7.25% p.a. during the forecast period. Under this scenario, the projection for the 2013 inflation increased relative to the figure considered at the January Copom meeting and stands above the 4.50% midpoint target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). According to the market scenario, which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin in the period immediately prior to the Copom meeting, 2013 IPCA inflation forecast also increased and stands above the midpoint inflation target. For 2014, inflation forecast increased relative to the January Copom meeting and stands above the midpoint inflation target, in both scenarios. 
20. The Copom evaluates that monetary policy should contribute to the consolidation of a favorable longer-term macroeconomic environment. In this respect, the Copom reassures that, under the inflation targeting regime, it guides its decisions according to BCB projected inflation and based on the analysis of alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine prices dynamics. The Copom also understands that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to reduce uncertainties regarding the future behavior of headline inflation, facilitate the assessment of scenarios by the monetary authority, as well as help the process of coordination of economic agents’ expectations, particularly price setters’. Additionally, it is noteworthy that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to intensify the effects of monetary policy actions, enabling them to affect in a more long-lasting manner the dynamics of headline inflation in the future. Although the Copom recognizes that other macroeconomic policy actions may influence the prices trajectory, it reaffirms its view that it is particularly under the responsibility of the monetary policy to remain especially vigilant, to guarantee that pressures detected in shorter horizons do not spread to longer horizons. 
21. The Copom understands that there were significant structural changes in the Brazilian economy, which determined retreat in interest rates in general and, in particular, in the neutral rate. Among the factors that support this view, it bears highlighting the reduction in risk premia, a direct consequence of the accomplishment of the inflation target for the ninth consecutive year, of the macroeconomic stability and of institutional improvements. Moreover, the process of interest rates reduction was favored by changes in the structure of financial and capital markets, by the credit market deepening, as well as by the generation of primary surpluses consistent with the maintenance of the decreasing trend for the public debt-to-GDP ratio. For the Committee, all these transformations are characterized by high degree of persistence - although, due to the economic cycles themselves, specific and temporary reversions may occur - and contribute for the Brazilian economy’s current solid indicators of solvency and liquidity. 
22. The Copom also evaluates that the increase in the supply of external savings and the reduction of its funding cost, which, according to the Committee's assessment, are largely permanent developments, have contributed to the reduction of the domestic interest rates, including the neutral rate. 
23. The Copom considers that, since its last meeting, the risks to global financial stability remained high, particularly those derived from the ongoing deleveraging process in the main economic blocks. In this context, despite identifying low probability of occurrence of extreme events in international financial markets, the Committee considers that the external environment remains complex. The Committee evaluates that, in general, the prospects for moderate global activity remained unchanged. In mature economies, the space to use monetary policy seems to be limited and the fiscal restraint scenario prevails in this and in the next years. In important emerging economies, however, the activity pace has intensified, supported by the resilience of domestic demand. The Committee also highlights evidences of accommodation of international commodities prices. 
24. The Copom evaluates that the pace of recovery in domestic economic activity - less intense than previously anticipated - is essentially due to limitations regarding the supply side. Given their nature, therefore, these impediments cannot be addressed by monetary policy actions, which are, par excellence, demand control tools. On the other hand, the Committee highlights that recent information points to the investment resumption and to a growth path more aligned with potential growth. Moreover, the Committee notices that domestic demand will continue to be boosted by the lagged effects of monetary policy actions recently implemented, as well as by the moderate expansion of credit supply, both for individuals and corporate. Additionally, domestic activity will continue to be favored by public transfers, as well as by the labor market vigor, which is reflected in historically low unemployment rates and in wage growth, despite some accommodation at the margin. 
25. The Copom observes that the main inflation scenario considers the materialization of the assumed trajectories regarding fiscal variables. It also notes that the generation of primary surpluses in line with the working hypotheses considered for inflation projections, in addition to contributing to reduce the mismatch between supply and demand growth rates, will strengthen the reduction trend of the public debt-to-GDP ratio and the positive perception regarding the macroeconomic environment in the medium and long terms. 
26. The Copom highlights that its main scenario also considers moderate expansion in the credit market. Still about the credit market, the Committee considers opportune initiatives with the aim of moderating the concessions of subsidies through credit operations. 
27. The Copom emphasizes that its main scenario includes more intense domestic activity this year. In this context, the Committee highlights the narrow idleness margin in the labor market, despite the signs of moderation in this market, and it considers that, under such circumstances, a significant risk stems from the possibility of concession of wages increases incompatible with productivity growth and their negative impacts over inflation dynamics. On the other hand, the Copom notes that the level of installed capacity utilization is below the long-term trend, in other words, it is contributing to the opening of the output gap and to contain prices pressures. Furthermore, the Copom emphasizes moderation recently observed in the prices dynamics of some real and financial assets, which, in the assumption of remaining at the current levels, will constitute important disinflationary strength. 
28. The Copom evaluates that the greater dispersion of consumer price increases recently observed, seasonal pressures and pressures localized in the transportation segment, among other factors, contribute for inflation to show resistance. Although this unfavorable dynamics may not represent a temporary phenomenon, but a possible accommodation of inflation at a higher level, the Committee considers that remaining uncertainties – stemming from foreign and domestic fronts - surround the prospective scenario and recommend that monetary policy should be administered with caution. 
29. In this context, assessing the macroeconomic outlook and the inflation prospects, the Copom unanimously decided to maintain the Selic rate at 7.25% p.a., without bias. 
31. The Copom evaluates that domestic demand tends to show robustness, especially household consumption, largely due to the effects of stimulus factors, such as income growth and moderate credit expansion. This scenario tends to prevail in this and in the upcoming semesters, when domestic demand will be impacted by the effects of monetary policy actions recently implemented, which are, in short, lagged and cumulative. For the Committee, these effects, the programs of public services concession, the inventories at adjusted levels and the gradual recovery of businessmen’s confidence create prospects for investment intensification. The Committee considers that recent initiatives indicate the balance of the public sector in expansionist position. On the other hand, the Committee notes that the still fragile international scenario represents an aggregate demand restraining factor. These elements and the developments in the quasi fiscal framework and in the assets market are important parts of the context in which future monetary policy decisions will be taken, aiming to ensure the timely convergence of inflation to the targets path. 
32. The Copom emphasizes that the international evidence, in which it is ratified by the Brazilian experience, shows that high inflation rates generate distortions that lead to higher risks and depress investment. These distortions are manifested, for example, in the shortening the planning horizons of households, businesses and governments, as well as in the deterioration of the businessmen’ confidence. The Committee also emphasizes that high inflation rates subtract the purchasing power of wages and transfers, with negative repercussions over households’ confidence and consumption. Therefore, high inflation rates reduce the growth potential of the economy, as well as of jobs and income generation. 