1. Monthly inflation measured by the Extended Consumer Price Index (IPCA) reached 0.55% in April, 0.09 percentage points (p.p.) below the registered in April 2012. As a consequence, inflation in twelve months reached 6.49% in April (compared to 5.10% in April 2012). Market prices changed 8.09% in twelve months (5.63% until April 2012), and regulated prices, 1.55% (3.73% until April 2012). Among market prices, the prices of tradable goods increased 6.57%, and the prices of non-tradable goods, 9.44%. The prices of food and beverages group, still impacted by weather-related factors, increased by 0.96% in April and reached 14.00% in twelve months (6.23% until April 2012). In turn, the prices of services rose 8.13% in twelve months (8.00% until April 2012). In short, services inflation remains at high levels, and there are pressures in the food and beverages segment. 
2. The average of the underlying inflation measures, calculated by the BCB, changed from 0.41% in March to 0.50% in April, and on a twelve-month trailing basis, it moved from 6.14% in March to 6.03% in April. Specifically, the smoothed trimmed means IPCA core inflation increased from 0.47% in March to 0.53% in April. The double weight core inflation, from 0.46% to 0.53%, the core inflation by exclusion of regulated prices and household food, from 0.31% to 0.45% and the core inflation by exclusion, which excludes ten household food and fuels items, increased from 0.35% to 0.52%. On the other hand, the non-smoothed trimmed means, declined from 0.48% to 0.45%. The diffusion index, which had reached 75.1% in January, declined to 65.8% in April. 
3. Inflation measured by the General Price Index (IGP-DI) decreased 0.06% in April, after increasing 0.31% in March, and accumulates change of 6.83% in the twelve months through April (3.86% in the twelve months through April 2012). The main component of this indicator, the Wholesale Price Index (IPA), changed 7.02%, (against 2.82% until April 2012). According to the breakdown by stage of production, there were increases in the prices of raw materials (5.74%), intermediate goods (6.86%) and final goods (8.15%), according to the same comparison basis. Inflation measured by the Consumer Price Index (IPC), the second most important component of the IGP-DI, stood at 6.17% in twelve months through April (5.05% in the twelve months through April 2012). The Civil Construction National Index (INCC), component with the lowest weight in the IGP-DI, changed 7.16% in the period (7.77% in the twelve months through April 2012), partially driven by the increase in labor cost. On its turn, the Producer/Manufacturing Industry Price Index (IPP/IT), calculated by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), increased 0.35% in April, expanding by 5.48% in twelve months. The Copom considers that the effects of the behavior of wholesale prices on consumer inflation will depend on the current and prospective demand conditions and on the price setters' expectations regarding the future inflation path. 
4. The Economic Activity Index of the BCB (IBC-Br) incorporates estimates for the monthly production of the three sectors of the economy, as well as for taxes on products, and constitutes important coincident indicator of economic activity. Considering seasonally adjusted data, the IBC-Br increased 0.7% in March, after decreasing by 0.4% in February. Year-over-year, the economy grew 0.4% in February and 1.2% in March, with twelve-month trailing growth remaining stable at 0.9%. The Consumer Confidence Index (ICC), from the Getúlio Vargas Foundation (FGV), retreated 0.4% in May, confirming the accommodation signaled in April, considering seasonally adjusted data. On its turn, the Services Sector Confidence Index (ICS) fell in May, similar to what had occurred in April. The industrial businessmen confidence, measured by the Industry Confidence Index (ICI), increased in May, due to the improvement in the perception of the current situation. Regarding agriculture, the Agricultural Production Systematic Assessment, carried out by the IBGE, indicates that grains production should grow by 14.2% in 2013, relative to the 2012 harvest. 
5. The Brazilian economy grew 0.6% in the first quarter of 2013, as in the previous quarter, according to seasonally adjusted quarterly data by the IBGE. Year-over-year, the growth in the first quarter was 1.9%, compared to 1.4% in the fourth quarter of 2012. As a consequence, the growth rate of the Brazilian economy in the last four quarters accumulates 1.2%. On the demand side, the Gross Fixed Capital Formation (GFCF) grew 4.6% at the margin and 3.0% over the same quarter of 2012. Household consumption - largest component of aggregate demand - increased by 0.1% at the margin and 2.1% compared to the first quarter of 2012 - thirty-eighth consecutive increase according to this comparison basis. In its turn, the government consumption remained unchanged in comparison to the previous quarter, having grown 1.6% year-over-year. Regarding the transactions with the rest of the world, the exports fell 6.4% and imports increased by 6.3%, at the margin, and changed -5.7% and 7.4%, respectively, year-over-year. 
6. Manufacturing activity increased 0.7% in March, after a 2.4% decline in February, according to the general industrial production series seasonally adjusted by the IBGE. Industrial production increased month-on-month in 13 out of the 27 branches of activity surveyed. The production volume in March was 3.3% lower year-over-year. In turn, the change in twelve months fell from -1.9% in February to -2.0% in March. According to data released by the National Confederation of Industry (CNI), real revenue in the manufacturing industry increased 2.7% in the first quarter, compared to the same quarter of the previous year, and the number of worked hours decreased 1.5%. 
7. Among the industry use categories, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, and considering the month-on-month growth in March, the production of capital goods grew 0.7%, of intermediate goods, 0.8%, and of durable consumer goods, 4.7%. On its turn, the production of semi-durable and nondurable consumer goods changed -0.5%. Year-over-year, the production of capital goods increased 4.3%, of intermediate goods retreated 1.7%, of durable consumer goods changed -4.0%, and the one related to semi-durable and non-durable consumer goods, -8.2%. Growth accumulated in the last twelve months through March showed retreat in all use categories: capital goods (-6.7%), intermediate goods (-1.4%), semi-durable and non-durable consumer goods (-1.2%), and durable consumer goods (-0.3%). 
8. The unemployment rate in the six metropolitan areas covered by the Monthly Employment Survey (PME), without seasonal adjustment, was estimated at 5.8% in April (6.0% in April 2012). According to the BCB seasonally adjusted series, the unemployment rate in April ranged to 5.4%, close to the minimum (5.3%) of the series started in March 2002. The reduction in the Working Age Population (WAP) growth rate during the last years has contributed to the process of reduction in the unemployment rates. On its turn, the occupation level reached 53.6% of the WAP in April, indicating stability. Still according to the PME, the average real income increased 1.6% in April, year-over-year, and real payroll increased 2.5%, also compared to April 2012. Data released by the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) show that 196.9 thousand formal jobs were created in April (217.0 thousand in April 2012), with positive balance in all eight sectors of the economic activity. In short, the set of available data indicates narrow idleness margin in the labor market, despite some signs of moderation at the margin. 
9. According to the retail monthly survey (PMC), released by the IBGE, retail sales volume increased 4.5% in March, year-over-year. Broad retail sales volume increased 3.0%, according to the same comparison basis. According to the seasonally adjusted series, in March retail sales changed by -0.1%, and broad retail sales, by 0.2%, month-on-month. Therefore, the broad retail sales growth rate in the last twelve months stood at 7.2%, with expansion in all ten sectors surveyed. On its turn, the Trade Confidence Index (ICOM), measured by the FGV, showed a slight decrease in the quarter ended in May and has signaled cooling of the activity, compared to 2012. For the upcoming months, the retail sales trajectory will continue to be influenced by governmental transfers, by the pace of real payroll growth and by moderate credit expansion. 
10. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry, calculated by the FGV, without seasonal adjustment, stood at 83.8% in April (83.5% in April 2012). According to the seasonally adjusted series calculated by the FGV, the Nuci in April stood at 84.2%. Capacity utilization in the capital goods sector, according to the seasonally adjusted series, decreased to 83.2%. In the sector of consumer goods, intermediate goods and construction inputs, the levels stood at 83.4%, 85.5% and 89.6%, respectively. 
11. The twelve-month trailing trade balance result retreated to US$10 billion in April. This result stemmed from US$239.4 billion in exports and US$229.4 billion in imports, associated to changes of -7.7% and -0.8%, respectively, compared to the previous twelve months. On its turn, the current account deficit accumulated in twelve months reached US$70 billion in April, equivalent to 3.0% of GDP, while the foreign direct investment totaled US$64.1 billion in the twelve months through April, equivalent to 2.8% of the GDP. 
12. In the global economy, low growth prospects for a long period in important advanced economies remain, notably in the Euro Zone, and indicators of volatility and risk aversion have shown some stability. High unemployment rates in Europe, coupled with the efforts of fiscal consolidation and political uncertainties,are translated into declines in investment and low growth projections. Nevertheless, the composite leading indicator, released by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), referring to March, signaled improved outlook for growth in some advanced economies, particularly in the United States (US) and in Japan. On its turn, the indicators of the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) for April, indicate continued global growth, despite at a more moderate pace, both in the manufacturing and in the services sectors. Regarding monetary policy, the advanced economies have persisted with strongly accommodative stances, coupled with, in some cases, unconventional monetary policty actions. In emerging economies, in general, monetary policy is expansionist. Inflation has remained at moderate levels in the US and in the Euro Zone, and negative in Japan. 
13. The price of Brent oil barrel has oscillated since the previous Copom meeting, reaching levels close to US$105. It bears highlighting that the geopolitical complexity that involves the oil sector tends to heighten the volatile behavior of prices, which also reflects the low predictability of some global demand components and of the dependency of supply growth on long term risky investment projects. The international prices of metallic and agricultural commodities have remained stable since the last Copom meeting. On its turn, the Food Price Index, calculated by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), accumulates a change of 1.1% in the twelve months through April 2013. 
14. The identified shocks, and their impacts, were reassessed according to the new set of available information. The scenario considered in the simulations was based on the following assumptions: 
a) the projected adjustment for gasoline price in 2013 was maintained at 5%, unchanged relative to the April Copom meeting, 
b) the projected adjustment for household electricity price points to a decrease of nearly 15%, unchanged relative to the April Copom meeting. This estimate considers the direct impacts of the sector charges reductions recently announced, as well as readjustments and ordinary tariff revisions planned for this year, 
c) for 2013, bottled gas prices are projected to remain stable and the fixed telephone tariff is projected to decrease 2.0%, 
d) the projected adjustment, based on individual items, for the set of regulated prices inflation accumulated in 2013, reduced to 2.5%, down from 2.7% considered in the April Copom meeting, and 
e) the projected adjustment for the set of regulated prices accumulated in 2014 was maintained at 4.5%, the same value considered at the April Copom meeting. This projection is based on endogenous determination models for regulated prices, which compute, among other factors, seasonal components, market prices inflation, and the inflation measured by the IGP (General Price Index). 
15. The projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, based on the 360-day swap rates, on the baseline scenario, estimates 52 bps and 16 bps spreads for the fourth quarters of 2013 and 2014, respectively. 
16. Regarding fiscal policy, projections assume the achievement in 2013 of the public sector primary surplus of R$155.9 billion, according to the parameters set out in the Budget Guidelines Law (LDO) – 2013. For 2014, as a working hypothesis, a primary surplus of R$167.4 billion is accepted, according to the parameters set out in the Budget Guidelines Law Project (PLDO) – 2014. 
17. The set of projections incorporates the estimated effects of the reduction in the neutral interest rate identified over the last years. 
18. Since the last Copom meeting, the median of the expectations compiled by the Investor Relations and Special Studies Department (Gerin) for the 2013 IPCA increased from 5.68% to 5.81%. For 2014, the median of the inflation expectations increased from 5.70% to 5.80%. 
19. The baseline scenario assumes the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$2.05/US$1.00 and the Selic rate at 7.50% p.a. during the forecast period. Under this scenario, the projection for the 2013 inflation increased relative to the figure considered at the April Copom meeting and stands above the 4.50% midpoint target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). According to the market scenario, which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin with market analysts, in the period immediately prior to the Copom meeting, 2013 IPCA inflation forecast increased and stands above the midpoint inflation target. For 2014, the inflation forecast little changed relative to the figure considered at the April Copom meeting and stands above the midpoint inflation target, both in the baseline and in the market scenarios. 
20. The Copom evaluates that monetary policy should contribute to the consolidation of a favorable longer-term macroeconomic environment. In this respect, the Copom reassures that, under the inflation targeting regime, it guides its decisions according to BCB projected inflation and based on the analysis of alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine prices dynamics. The Committee also understands that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to reduce uncertainties regarding the future behavior of headline inflation, facilitate the assessment of scenarios by the monetary authority, as well as help the process of coordination of economic agents’ expectations, particularly prices setters’. Additionally, it is noteworthy that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to intensify the effects of monetary policy actions, enabling them to affect in a more long-lasting manner the dynamics of headline inflation in the future. Although the Copom recognizes that other macroeconomic policy actions may influence the prices trajectory, it reaffirms its view that it is particularly under the responsibility of the monetary policy to remain especially vigilant, to guarantee that pressures detected in shorter horizons do not spread to longer horizons. 
21. The Copom understands that there were significant structural changes in the Brazilian economy, which determined retreat in interest rates in general and, in particular, in the neutral rate. Among the factors that support this view, it bears highlighting the reduction in risk premia, a direct consequence of the accomplishment of the inflation target for the ninth consecutive year, of the macroeconomic stability and of institutional improvements. Moreover, the process of interest rates reduction was favored by changes in the structure of financial and capital markets, by the credit market deepening, as well as by the generation of primary surpluses consistent with the maintenance of the decreasing trend for the public debt-to-GDP ratio. For the Committee, all these transformations are characterized by high degree of persistence - although, due to the economic cycles themselves, specific and temporary reversions may occur - and contribute for the Brazilian economy’s current solid indicators of solvency and liquidity. 
22. The Copom also evaluates that the increase in the supply of external savings and the reduction of its funding cost, which, according to the Committee's assessment, are largely permanent developments, have contributed to the reduction of the domestic interest rates, including the neutral rate. 
23. The Copom considers that, since its last meeting, the risks to global financial stability remained high, particularly those derived from the ongoing deleveraging process in the main economic blocks. In this context, despite identifying low probability of occurrence of extreme events in the international financial markets, the Committee considers that the external environment remains complex. The Committee evaluates that, in general, the prospects for moderate global activity remained, with trend of intensification over the relevant horizon for monetary policy. In this context, there are localized improvements in advanced economies, although the space to use monetary policy remains limited and the fiscal restraint scenario prevails in this and in the upcoming years. In important emerging economies, however, the activity pace has intensified, supported by the resilience of domestic demand. The Committee also highlights evidences of accommodation of commodities prices in international markets, as well as greater volatility and dollar appreciation trend in the US. 
24. The Copom evaluates that, despite the limitations in the supply side, the main scenario encompasses a more intense domestic activity pace in this and in the upcoming year, that means, a growth trajectory, in the relevant horizon for the monetary policy, more in line with potential growth. In this context, recent information indicate investments’ recovery and continuity in household consumption growth, favored by public transfers and by the vigor in the labor market – which reflects in historically low unemployment rates and in wages growth. In general, domestic absorption has expanded at rates higher than GDP growth rates and tends to be benefited by the effects of fiscal policy actions, by the expansion of credit supply, both for individuals and corporates, and by the program of public services concession, among other factors. 
25. The Copom observes that the main inflation scenario considers the materialization of the assumed trajectories regarding fiscal variables, despite recent initiatives point to an expansionist position of the public sector balance. The Committee notes that the generation of primary surpluses in line with the working hypotheses considered for inflation projections, in addition to contributing to reduce the mismatch between supply and demand growth rates, strengthens the reduction trend of the public debt-to-GDP ratio and the positive perception regarding the macroeconomic environment in the medium and long terms. 
26. The Copom highlights that its main scenario also considers moderate credit expansion. Still regarding the credit market, the Committee considers opportune initiatives with the aim of moderating the concessions of subsidies through credit operations. 
27. In the factors market, the Copom highlights the narrow idleness margin in the labor market and it considers that, under such circumstances, a significant risk stems from the possibility of concession of wages increases incompatible with productivity growth and their negative impacts over inflation. Despite the moderation signs, the Committee evaluates that the wages dynamics remains originating inflationary pressures of costs. 
28. The Copom evaluates that the high inflation level and the dispersion of prices increases, as recently observed, contribute for inflation to show resistance. In this context, the formal and informal indexation mechanisms and the deterioration in the economic agents’ perception regarding the inflation dynamics are included. Considering the damage that the persistence of this process would cause to the decision-making process on consumption and investment, it is necessary that, with the due promptness, it is reverted. Therefore, the Committee understands that the intensification of the adjustment pace of the monetary conditions underway is appropriate. 
29. In this context, and continuing the basic interest rate adjustment, the Copom unanimously decided to increase the Selic rate to 8.00% p.a., without bias. The Committee evaluates that this decision will contribute to set inflation into decline and ensure that this trend persists in the upcoming year. 
31. The Copom evaluates that the domestic demand tends to show robustness, especially household consumption, largely due to the effects of stimulus factors, such as income growth and moderate credit expansion. This scenario tends to prevail in this and in the upcoming semesters, when domestic demand will be impacted by the remaining effects of policy actions implemented in 2012. For the Committee, these effects, the programs of public services concession, the inventories at adjusted levels and the gradual recovery of businessmen’s confidence create prospects for investments’ intensification and industrial production recovery. The Committee considers that recent initiatives point to an expansionist position of the public sector balance. On the other hand, the Committee notes that the fragile international scenario still represents an aggregate demand restraining factor. These elements and the developments in the quasi fiscal framework and in the assets market are important parts of the context in which future monetary policy decisions will be taken, aiming to ensure the timely convergence of inflation to the targets path. 
32. The Copom emphasizes that the international evidence, which it is ratified by the Brazilian experience, shows that high inflation rates generate distortions that lead to higher risks and depress investments. These distortions are manifested, for example, in the shortening of the planning horizons of households, businesses and governments, as well as in the deterioration of the businessmen confidence. The Committee also emphasizes that high inflation rates subtract the purchasing power of wages and transfers, with negative repercussions over household’s confidence and consumption. Therefore, high inflation rates reduce the growth potential of the economy, as well as of jobs and income generation.