1. Monthly inflation measured by the Extended Consumer Price Index (IPCA) changed 0.26% in June, 0.18 percentage points (p.p.) above the registered in June 2012. As a consequence, inflation in twelve months reached 6.70% in June (compared to 4.92% in June 2012). Market prices changed 8.28% in twelve months (5.34% until June 2012), and regulated prices, 1.77% (3.77% until June 2012). Among market prices, the prices of tradable goods increased 6.75%, and the prices of non-tradable goods, 9.63%. The prices of food and beverages group cooled down at the margin, changing 0.04% in June and 12.80% in twelve months (7.34% until June 2012). On its turn, the prices of services rose 8.64% in twelve months (7.50% until June 2012). In short, regulated inflation retreats, at the same time that non-tradables inflation remains at high levels and the tradables inflation continues to increase. 
2. The average of the underlying inflation measures, calculated by the BCB, changed from 0.48% in May to 0.39% in June. As a consequence, on a twelve-month trailing basis, inflation reached 6.43% (1.27 p.p. above the one registered until June 2012). Specifically, the smoothed trimmed means IPCA core inflation changed from 0.52% in May to 0.36% in June. The double weight core inflation, from 0.50% to 0.43%, the core inflation by exclusion of regulated prices and household food, from 0.48% to 0.38%, the non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation, from 0.41% to 0.31%, the core by exclusion, which excludes ten household food and fuels items, from 0.49% to 0.47%. The diffusion index, which had reached 75.1% in January, declined to 55.3% in June. 
3. Inflation measured by the General Price Index (IGP-DI) increased 0.76% in June (0.32% in May) and accumulates change of 6.28% in the twelve months through June (5.66% in the twelve months through June 2012). The main component of this indicator, the Wholesale Price Index (IPA), changed 6.02%, (against 5.54% until June 2012). According to the breakdown by stage of production, there were increases in the prices of raw materials (4.82%), intermediate goods (5.57%) and final goods (7.52%), according to the same comparison basis. Inflation measured by the Consumer Price Index (IPC), the second most important component of the IGP-DI, changed 6.22% in twelve months through June (5.37% in the twelve months through June 2012). The Civil Construction National Index (INCC), component with the lowest weight in the IGP-DI, changed 8.00% (7.04% in the twelve months through June 2012), partially driven by the labor cost, which increased 10.32% in the period. On its turn, the Producer/Manufacturing Industry Price Index (IPP/IT), calculated by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), increased 0.28% in May, expanding by 4.07% in twelve months. The Copom considers that the effects of the behavior of wholesale prices on consumer inflation will depend on the current and prospective demand conditions and on the price setters' expectations regarding the future inflation path. 
4. The Economic Activity Index of the BCB (IBC-Br) incorporates estimate for the monthly production of the three sectors of the economy, as well as for taxes on products, and constitutes important coincident indicator of economic activity. Considering seasonally adjusted data, the IBC-Br increased 0.8% in April, after expanding by 1.1% in March. Year-over-year, the IBC-Br grew 1.2% in March and 7.3% in April. The Consumer Confidence Index (ICC), from the Getúlio Vargas Foundation (FGV), retreated in June. The Services Sector Confidence Index (ICS) remained stable in June, after retreating in April and in May. The industrial businessmen confidence, measured by the Industry Confidence Index (ICI), increased in May and decreased in June. Regarding agriculture, the Agricultural Production Systematic Assessment (LSPA), carried out by the IBGE, indicates that grains production should grow by 14.7% in 2013, relative to the 2012 harvest. 
5. The Credit Conditions Indicators – elaborated by the Central Bank based on quarterly surveys with institutions representing each credit market segment – evidence for the third quarter of 2013, compared to the second quarter, prospect of moderation in the pace of concessions of new credit operations for the segment of big companies, and maintenance in the case of micro, small and medium companies. Regarding credit to individuals, the indicator suggests stability in the pace of concessions of credit lines directed to consumption and moderation in the concessions regarding housing. 
6. Similarly to other monthly activity indicators, the one related to industry has showed volatililty in recent months, which in part reflects adjustments in the number of working days due to floating holidays. In this context, the industrial production retreated 2.0% in May, reverting the 1.9% increase observed in April, according to the general industrial production series seasonally adjusted by the IBGE. In May, industrial production decreased month-on-month in 20 out of the 27 branches of activity surveyed. Nevertheless, the industrial production in the month was 1.4% above the one registered in May 2012, but it retreated 0.5% in the twelve months through May. According to data released by the National Confederation of Industry (CNI), real revenue in the manufacturing industry increased 6.2% in the first five months of 2013, compared to the same period of the previous year, and the number of worked hours remained stable. 
7. Among the industry use categories, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, and considering the month-on-month growth in May, the production of capital goods reduced 3.5%, of intermediate goods, 1.1%, of durable consumer goods, 1.2%, and of semidurable and non-durable consumer goods, 1.0%. Year-over-year, the production of capital goods increased 12.5%, of durable consumer goods, 4.1%, and the one related to semi-durable and non-durable consumer goods, 0.8%. On the other hand, the production of intermediate goods retreated 0.6%, according to the same comparison basis. Regarding growth accumulated in the last twelve months through May, durable consumer goods production expanded by 2.7%, while the other use categories retreated: capital goods (-2.3%), intermediate goods production (-0.7%), and semi-durable and non-durable consumer goods (-0.4%). 
8. The unemployment rate in the six metropolitan areas covered by the Monthly Employment Survey (PME), without seasonal adjustment, was estimated at 5.8% in May (the same value of April 2013 and May 2012). According to the BCB seasonally adjusted series, the unemployment rate in May remained at 5.4%, close to the minimum of the historical series (5.3%), started in March 2002. The reduction in the Working Age Population (WAP) growth rate during the last years has contributed to the maintenance of the unemployment rate at historically low levels. On its turn, the occupation level remained stable, at 53.8% of the WAP, in May. Still according to the PME, the average real income increased 1.4% in May, year-over-year, and real payroll increased 1.5%, also compared to May 2012. Data released by the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) show that 72 thousand formal jobs were created in May, the lowest reading for the month, since 1992. In short, the set of available data indicates narrow idleness margin in the labor market, despite some signs of moderation at the margin. 
9. According to the retail monthly survey (PMC), released by the IBGE, retail sales volume increased 1.6% in April, year-over-year. Broad retail sales volume increased 9.1%, according to the same comparison basis. According to the seasonally adjusted series, in April retail sales changed by 0.5%, and broad retail sales, by 1.9%, month-on-month. Therefore, the broad retail sales growth rate in the last twelve months reached 7.7%, with expansion in all ten sectors surveyed. On its turn, the Trade Confidence Index (ICOM), measured by the FGV, slightly retreated in June. The Copom evaluates that the retail sales trajectory will continue to be influenced by governmental transfers, by the pace of real payroll growth and by the moderate credit expansion. 
10. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry, calculated by the FGV, without seasonal adjustment, reached 84.2% in June (83.6% in June 2012). According to the seasonally adjusted series calculated by the FGV, the Nuci in June stood at 84.4%. Capacity utilization in the capital goods sector, according to the seasonally adjusted series, decreased to 82.0%. In the sector of consumer goods, intermediate goods and construction inputs, the levels stood at 83.3%, 86.2% and 90.4%, respectively. 
11. The twelve-month trailing trade balance result retreated to US$9.3 billion in June. This result stemmed from US$239.9 billion in exports and US$230.5 billion in imports, which diminished 5.9% and 0.2%, respectively, compared to the previous twelve months. On its turn, the current account deficit accumulated in twelve months reached US$73 billion in May, equivalent to 3.2% of GDP, while the foreign direct investment totaled US$64.2 billion in the twelve months through May, equivalent to 2.8% of the GDP. 
12. In the global economy, low growth prospects in important advanced economies prevail, notably in the Euro Zone, and volatility indicators have responded to the prospects of monetary policy change in the US. High unemployment rates in Europe, coupled with the efforts of fiscal consolidation and political uncertainties, are translated into investments decline and low growth. The composite leading indicator, released by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), referring to May, signals growth prospects above trend in several advanced economies, such as Germany and Japan. The indicators of the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) for June indicate continuing global growth, particularly in the manufacturing sector. Regarding monetary policy, accommodative stances have prevailed in the advanced economies. In emerging economies, in general, monetary policy is expansionist. Inflation has remained at moderate levels in the US and in the Euro Zone, and in Japan, deflation is still recorded. 
13. The price of the Brent oil barrel has slightly increased since the previous Copom meeting, reaching levels close to US$108. It bears highlighting that the geopolitical complexity that involves the oil sector tends to heighten the volatile behavior of prices, which also reflects the low predictability of some global demand components and the dependency of supply growth on long term risky investment projects. Since the last Copom meeting, the international prices of agricultural commodities have changed -0.5%, and the ones relative to metals have decreased 2.4%. On its turn, the Food Price Index, calculated by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), increased 5.4% in the twelve months through June 2013. 
14. The identified shocks, and their impacts, were reassessed according to the new set of available information. The scenario considered in the simulations was based on the following assumptions: 
a) the projected adjustment for gasoline price in 2013 was maintained at 5%, unchanged relative to the value considered at the May Copom meeting, 
b) the projected adjustment for household electricity price points to a decrease of nearly 15%, unchanged relative to the value considered at the May Copom meeting. This estimate considers the direct impacts of the sector charges reductions announced, as well as readjustments and ordinary tariff revisions planned for this year, 
c) for 2013, bottled gas prices are projected to remain stable and the fixed telephone tariff is projected to decrease 2.0%, same values considered at the May Copom meeting, 
d) the projected adjustment, based on individual items, for the set of regulated prices inflation accumulated in 2013, reduced to 1.8% - which incorporates the recent revogation of adjustments in the urban transportation fares -, down from 2.5% considered at the May Copom meeting, and 
e) the projected adjustment for the set of regulated prices accumulated in 2014 was maintained at 4.5%, the same value considered at the May Copom meeting. This projection is based on endogenous determination models for regulated prices, which compute, among other factors, seasonal components, market prices inflation, and the inflation measured by the IGP (General Price Index). 
15. The projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, based on the 360-day swap rates, on the baseline scenario, estimates 69 bps and 12 bps spreads for the fourth quarters of 2013 and 2014, respectively. 
16. The structural primary surplus that derives from the primary surplus trajectories for 2013 is considered as the fiscal indicator, according to the parameters set out in the Budget Guidelines Law (LDO)/2013, and, for 2014, according to the parameters set out in the Budget Guidelines Law Project (PLDO)/2014. 
17. Since the last Copom meeting, the median of the projections compiled by the Investor Relations and Special Studies Department (Gerin) for the 2013 IPCA remained unchanged at 5.81%. For 2014, the median of the inflation projections increased from 5.80% to 5.90%. 
18. The baseline scenario assumes the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$2.25/US$1.00 and the Selic rate at 8.00% p.a. during the forecast period. Under this scenario, the projection for the 2013 inflation did not change relative to the value considered at the May Copom meeting, therefore, it remains above the 4.50% midpoint target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). According to the market scenario, which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin with market analysts, in the period immediately prior to the Copom meeting, the 2013 IPCA inflation forecast remained stable relative to the value considered at the May meeting. As a consequence, it stands above the inflation target. For 2014, in the baseline scenario, the inflation forecast increased relative to the figure considered at the May Copom meeting and stood stable in the market scenario, both above the 4.5% target. 
19. The Copom evaluates that the monetary policy should contribute to the consolidation of a favorable longer-term macroeconomic environment. In this respect, the Copom reassures that, under the inflation targeting regime, it guides its decisions according to BCB projected inflation and based on the analysis of alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine prices dynamics. The Committee also understands that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to reduce uncertainties regarding the future behavior of headline inflation, facilitate the assessment of scenarios by the monetary authority, as well as help the process of coordination of economic agents’ expectations, particularly prices setters’. Additionally, it is noteworthy that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to intensify the effects of monetary policy actions, enabling them to affect in a more long-lasting manner the dynamics of headline inflation in the future. Although the Copom recognizes that other macroeconomic policy actions may influence the prices trajectory, it reaffirms its view that it is particularly under the responsibility of the monetary policy to remain especially vigilant, to guarantee that pressures detected in shorter horizons do not spread to longer horizons. 
20. The Copom considers that, since its last meeting, the risks to global financial stability remained high, particularly those derived from the ongoing deleveraging process in the main economic blocks. In this context, despite identifying low probability of occurrence of extreme events in the international financial markets, the Committee considers that the external environment remains complex. The Committee evaluates that, in general, the prospects for moderate global activity this year have remained, with trend of intensification over the relevant horizon for the monetary policy. In this context, there are localized improvements in advanced economies, although the space to use monetary policy remains limited and the fiscal restraint scenario prevails in this and in the upcoming years. In important emerging economies, however, the activity pace has not matched to expectations, despite the resilience of domestic demand. The Committee also highlights evidences of accommodation of commodities prices in the international markets, as well as greater volatility and dollar appreciation trend in the US. 
21. The Copom evaluates that the main scenario encompasses a more intense domestic activity pace in this and in the upcoming year. Recent information indicate resumption of investments and continuity of household consumption growth, the latter favored by public transfers and by the vigor in the labor market, which reflects in historically low unemployment rates and in wages growth. In general, domestic absorption has expanded at rates higher than GDP growth rates and tends to be benefited by the effects of fiscal policy actions, by the expansion of credit supply, both for individuals and corporates, and by the program of public services concession, among other factors. However, the Committee notes that the speed of materialization of these expected gains can be limited if the current decline registered in the business and consumer confidence is not promptly reverted. 
22. The Copom observes that the main inflation scenario considers the materialization of the assumed trajectories regarding fiscal variables, despite recent initiatives point to an expansionist position of the public sector balance. The Committee notes that the generation of primary surpluses in line with the working hypotheses considered for inflation projections, in addition to contributing to reduce the mismatch between supply and demand growth rates, strengthens the reduction trend of the public debt-to-GDP ratio and the positive perception regarding the macroeconomic environment in the medium and long terms. 
23. The Copom highlights that its main scenario also considers moderate credit expansion. Still regarding the credit market, the Committee considers opportune initiatives with the aim of moderating the concessions of subsidies through credit operations. 
24. In the factors market, the Copom highlights the narrow idleness margin in the labor market and it considers that, under such circumstances, a significant risk stems from the possibility of concession of wages increases incompatible with productivity growth and their negative impacts over inflation. Despite the moderation signs, the Committee evaluates that the wages dynamics remains originating inflationary cost pressures. 
25. The Committee considers that the exchange rate depreciation and volatility observed in the recent quarters call for a natural and expected correction in relative prices. For the Committee, these movements in the local currency market, to some extent, reflect prospects for the transition of international financial markets towards normality, among other dimensions, in terms of liquidity and interest rates. It is important to also highlight that, for the Committee, the mentioned exchange rate depreciation is a source of inflationary pressure in shorter periods. However, the secondary effects arising from it, and that would tend to materialize over longer periods, can and should be limited by appropriate monetary policy handling. 
26. The Copom evaluates that the high inflation level and the dispersion of prices increases, as recently observed, contribute for inflation to show resistance. In this context, the formal and informal indexation mechanisms and the deterioration in the economic agents’ perception regarding the inflation dynamics are included. Considering the damage that the persistence of this process would cause to the decision-making process on consumption and investment, in the Committee’s view, it is necessary that, with the due promptness, it is reverted. 
27. In this context, the Committee understands that it is appropriate to continue the adjustment pace of the monetary conditions underway. 
28. Therefore, continuing the basic interest rate adjustment, the Copom unanimously decided to increase the Selic rate to 8.50% p.a., without bias. The Committee evaluates that this decision will contribute to set inflation into decline and ensure that this trend persists in the upcoming year. 
30. The Copom evaluates that the domestic demand tends to be relatively robust, especially household consumption, largely due to the effects of stimulus factors, such as income growth and moderate credit expansion. This scenario tends to prevail in this and in the upcoming semesters, when domestic demand will be impacted by the remaining effects of the policy actions implemented in 2012. For the Committee, these effects, the programs of public services concession, the permissions for the exploration of oil and the inventories at adjusted levels, among others, create good prospects for investments and industrial production. The Committee considers that recent initiatives point to an expansionist position of the public sector balance. On the other hand, the Committee notes that the fragile international scenario still represents an aggregate demand restraining factor. These elements and the developments in the quasi fiscal framework and in the assets market are important parts of the context in which future monetary policy decisions will be taken, aiming to ensure the timely convergence of inflation to the targets path. 
31. The Copom emphasizes that the international evidence, in which it is ratified by the Brazilian experience, shows that high inflation rates generate distortions that lead to higher risks and depress investments. These distortions are manifested, for example, in the shortening of the planning horizons of households, businesses and governments, as well as in the deterioration of the businessmen confidence. The Committee also emphasizes that high inflation rates subtract the purchasing power of wages and transfers, with negative repercussions over household’s confidence and consumption. Therefore, high inflation rates reduce the growth potential of the economy, as well as of jobs and income generation.