1. Monthly inflation measured by the Extended Consumer Price Index (IPCA) changed 0.03% in July, after increasing by 0.26% in June. As a consequence, inflation in twelve months reached 6.27% in July (5.20% until July 2012). Market prices changed 7.86% in twelve months (5.77% until July 2012), and regulated prices recording the record low (1.31%) of the historical series started in 1994, down from 3.67% until July 2012. Among market prices, the prices of tradable goods increased 6.81% (3.08% until July 2012), and the prices of non-tradable goods, 8.80% (8.24% until July 2012). The prices of food and beverages group registered 0.33% deflation in July, but changed 11.41% in twelve months (8.68% until July 2012). On its turn, the prices of services rose 8.48% in twelve months (7.90% until June 2012). In short, regulated inflation retreats, at the same time that non-tradables inflation remains at high levels, and the tradables inflation continues to increase. 
2. The average of the underlying inflation measures, calculated by the BCB, changed from 0.39% in June to 0.28% in July. As a consequence, on a twelve-month trailing basis, inflation reached 6.26% (1.02 p.p. above the one registered until July 2012). Specifically, the smoothed trimmed means IPCA core inflation changed from 0.36% in June to 0.29% in July. The double weight core inflation, from 0.43% to 0.34%, the core inflation by exclusion of regulated prices and household food, from 0.38% to 0.35%, the non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation, from 0.31% to 0.21%, and the core by exclusion, which excludes ten household food items and fuels, from 0.46% to 0.20%. The diffusion index has declined since January (75.1%) and reached 55.1% in July. 
3. Inflation measured by the General Price Index (IGP-DI) increased 0.14% in July (0.76% in June) and accumulated change of 4.84% in the twelve months through July (7.31% in the twelve months through July 2012). The main component of this indicator, the Wholesale Price Index (IPA), changed 4.02%, (against 7.93% until July 2012). According to the breakdown by stage of production, there were increases in the prices of raw materials (0.19%), intermediate goods (5.38%) and final goods (5.99%), according to the same comparison basis. Inflation measured by the Consumer Price Index (IPC), the second most important component of the IGP-DI, changed 5.80% in twelve months through July (5.65% in the twelve months through July 2012). The Civil Construction National Index (INCC), component with the lowest weight in the IGP-DI, changed 7.80% (7.27% in the twelve months through July 2012), partially driven by the labor cost, which increased 10.04% in the period. On its turn, the Producer/Manufacturing Industry Price Index (IPP/IT), calculated by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), increased 1.33% in June, expanding by 4.25% in twelve months. The Copom considers that the effects of the behavior of wholesale prices on consumer inflation will depend on the current and prospective demand conditions and on the price setters' expectations regarding the future inflation path. 
4. The Economic Activity Index of the BCB (IBC-Br) incorporates estimate for the monthly production of the three sectors of the economy, as well as for taxes on products, and constitutes important coincident indicator of economic activity. Considering seasonally adjusted data, the IBC-Br increased 1.1% in June, after contracting by 1.5% in May. Year-over-year, the IBC-Br grew 2.3% in May and 2.4% in June. In the first half of the year, the indicator grew 2.9% year-over-year. The Consumer Confidence Index (ICC), from the Getúlio Vargas Foundation (FGV), expanded in August, reversing previous losses, due to improvements in the perception of both the current situation and in the expectations. The Services Sector Confidence Index (ICS) increased in August, after retreating in the previous month. On the other hand, the industrial businessmen confidence, measured by the Industry Confidence Index (ICI), decreased in August, and showed stability in expectations. Regarding agriculture, the Agricultural Production Systematic Assessment (LSPA), carried out by the IBGE, indicates that grains production should grow by 16.1% in 2013, relative to the 2012 harvest. 
5. Similarly to other monthly activity indicators, the one related to industry has shown volatility in recent months, which, in part, reflects ajustments in the number of working days due to floating holidays. In this context, industrial production increased 1.9% in June, after retreating 1.8% in May, according to the industrial production series seasonally adjusted by the IBGE. In June, the industrial production increased in 22 out of the 27 surveyed activity sectors, on a month-on-month basis. The monthly production was 3.1% above the one registered in June 2012, resulting in increase of 0.2% in the last twelve months. According to data released by the National Confederation of Industry (CNI), real revenue in the manufacturing industry increased 5.3% in the first half of the year, compared to the same period of the previous year, and the number of hours worked increased 0.1%. 
6. Among the industry use categories, the production of capital goods increased 18.0% in June, year-over-year, the production of intermediate goods, 0.4%, of durable consumer goods, 4.5%, and of semidurable and non-durable consumer goods, 2.3%. Month-on-month, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, the production of capital goods in June increased 6.3%, of durable consumer goods, 3.6%, and the one related to semi-durable and non-durable consumer goods, 2.9%. On the other hand, the production of intermediate goods remained stable, according to the same comparison basis. Regarding growth accumulated in the last twelve months through June, there were expansions in the production of durable consumer goods (3.7%) and in the production of capital goods (0.3%). However, the production of intermediate goods and the one related to semi-durable and non-durable consumer goods retreated 0.2% and 0.1%, respectively, according to this comparison basis. 
7. The unemployment rate in the six metropolitan areas covered by the Monthly Employment Survey (PME), without seasonal adjustment, was estimated at 5.6% in July (5.4% in July 2012). According to the BCB seasonally adjusted series, the unemployment rate in July stood at 5.5%, close to the record low of the historical series (5.3%), started in March 2002. The occupation level reached 54.0% of the Working Age Population (WAP), in July. The reduction in the WAP growth rate during the last years has contributed to the maintenance of the unemployment rate at historically low levels. Still according to the PME, the average real income increased 1.5% in July, year-over-year, and real payroll increased 2.7%, also compared to July 2012. Data released by the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) show that 41.5 thousand formal jobs were created in July (142.5 thousand in July 2012). In short, the set of available data indicates narrow idleness in the labor market, despite more evident signs of moderation at the margin. 
8. According to the retail monthly survey (PMC), released by the IBGE, retail sales volume increased 1.7% in June, year-over-year. Broad retail sales volume decreased 2.0%, according to the same comparison basis, influenced by the lower sales of vehicles, motorcycles, parts and pieces. According to the month-on-month seasonally adjusted series, in June retail sales changed by 0.5%, and broad retail sales, by 1.0%. Therefore, the broad retail sales growth rate in the last twelve months reached 6.4%, with expansion in all ten sectors surveyed. The Trade Confidence Index (ICOM), measured by the FGV, increased in August. The Copom evaluates that the retail sales trajectory will continue to be influenced by governmental transfers, by the pace of real payroll growth and by the moderate credit expansion. 
9. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry, calculated by the FGV, without seasonal adjustment, reached 84.6% in August (84.4% in August 2012). According to the seasonally adjusted series calculated by the FGV, the Nuci in August stood at 84.2%. Capacity utilization in the capital goods sector, according to the seasonally adjusted series, stood at 81.9%. In the sector of consumer goods, intermediate goods and construction inputs, the utilization capacity stood at 82.5%, 86.1% and 90.8%, respectively. 
10. The twelve-month trailing trade balance result retreated to US$4.5 billion in July. This result stemmed from US$239.6 billion in exports and US$235.1 billion in imports, which diminished 5.6% and increased 2.2%, respectively, compared to the previous twelve months. On its turn, the current account deficit accumulated in twelve months reached US$77.7 billion in July, equivalent to 3.4% of the GDP, while the foreign direct investment totaled US$62.3 billion in the twelve months through July, equivalent to 2.7% of the GDP. 
11. In the global economy, a scenario of low growth prospects in important advanced economies prevail, notably in the Euro Zone, and volatility indicators have responded to the prospects of monetary policy change in the US. High unemployment rates in Europe, coupled with the efforts of fiscal consolidation and political uncertainties, are translated into investment decline and low growth. The composite leading indicator, released by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), referring to June, however, signals improvement at the margin in several advanced economies, with prospects of growth above the trend, in constrast to the observed in emerging economies. Regarding monetary policy, accommodative stances have prevailed in the advanced economies. In emerging economies, in general, monetary policy is expansionist. Inflation has remained at moderate levels in the US and in the Euro Zone, and in Japan, it is slightly above zero. 
12. The price of the Brent oil barrel has increased since the previous Copom meeting, reaching levels close to US$116, due to higher geopolitical risks. It bears highlighting that the geopolitical complexity that involves the oil sector tends to heighten the volatile behavior of prices, which also reflects the low predictability of some global demand components and the dependency of supply growth on long term risky investment projects. Since the last Copom meeting, the international prices of agricultural commodities have decreased 0.7%, and the ones relative to metals have increased 6.6%. On its turn, the Food Price Index, calculated by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), changed -3.3% in the twelve months through July 2013. 
13. The identified shocks, and their impacts, were reassessed according to the new set of available information. The scenario considered in the simulations was based on the following assumptions: 
a) the projected adjustment for gasoline price for the whole year of 2013 was maintained at 5%, unchanged relative to the value considered at the July Copom meeting, 
b) the projected adjustment for household electricity price points to a decrease of nearly 16%, compared to the 15% reduction considered at the July Copom meeting. This estimate considers the direct impacts of the sector charges reductions announced, as well as readjustments and ordinary tariff revisions planned for this year, 
c) for the whole year of 2013, bottled gas prices are projected to increase by 2.5% and the fixed telephone tariff is projected to decrease 1.0%, compared to stability and retreat of 2% considered at the July Copom meeting, respectively, 
d) the projected adjustment, based on individual items, for the set of regulated prices inflation accumulated for the whole year of 2013, remained at 1.8%, the same value considered at the July Copom meeting, and 
e) the projected cumulative adjustment for the set of regulated prices in 2014 was maintained at 4.5%, the same value considered at the July Copom meeting. This projection is based on endogenous determination models for regulated prices, which compute, among other factors, seasonal components, market prices inflation, and the inflation measured by the IGP (General Price Index). 
14. The projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, based on the 360-day swap rates, on the baseline scenario, estimates 77 bps and 18 bps spreads for the fourth quarters of 2013 and 2014, respectively. 
15. The structural primary surplus that derives from the primary surplus trajectories for 2013 is considered as the fiscal indicator, according to the parameters set out in the Budget Guidelines Law (LDO)/2013, and, for 2014, according to the parameters set out in the Budget Guidelines Law Project (PLDO)/2014. 
16. Since the last Copom meeting, the median of the projections compiled by the Investor Relations and Special Studies Department (Gerin) for the 2013 IPCA slightly decreased from 5.81% to 5.80%. For 2014, the median of the inflation projections decreased from 5.90% to 5.84%. 
17. The baseline scenario assumes the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$2.40/US$1.00 and the Selic rate at 8.50% p.a. during the forecast period. Under this scenario, the projection for the 2013 inflation remained stable relative to the value considered at the July Copom meeting, therefore, it remains above the 4.50% midpoint target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). According to the market scenario, which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin with market analysts, in the period immediately prior to the Copom meeting, the 2013 IPCA inflation forecast increased relative to the value considered at the July meeting. As a consequence, it stands above the inflation target. For 2014, in the baseline scenario, the inflation forecast remained stable relative to the figure considered at the July Copom meeting and increased in the market scenario, standing both above the 4.5% target. For the second quarter of 2015, the inflation forecast stays above the target in both scenarios. 
18. The Copom evaluates that the monetary policy should contribute to the consolidation of a favorable longer-term macroeconomic environment. In this respect, the Copom reassures that, under the inflation targeting regime, it guides its decisions according to BCB projected inflation and based on the analysis of alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine prices dynamics. The Committee also understands that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to reduce uncertainties regarding the future behavior of headline inflation, facilitate the assessment of scenarios by the monetary authority, as well as help the process of coordination of economic agents’ expectations, particularly prices setters’. Additionally, it is noteworthy that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to intensify the effects of monetary policy actions, enabling them to affect in a more long-lasting manner the dynamics of headline inflation in the future. Although the Copom recognizes that other macroeconomic policy actions may influence the prices trajectory, it reaffirms its view that it is particularly under the responsibility of the monetary policy to remain especially vigilant, to guarantee that pressures detected in shorter horizons do not spread to longer horizons. 
19. The Copom considers that, since its last meeting, the risks to global financial stability remained high, particularly those derived from the ongoing deleveraging process in the main economic blocks. Despite identifying low probability of occurrence of extreme events in the international financial markets, the Committee considers that the external environment remains complex. The Committee evaluates that, in general, the prospects for moderate global activity this year have remained, with trend of intensification over the relevant horizon for the monetary policy. There are localized improvements in advanced economies, although the space to use monetary policy remains limited and the fiscal restraint scenario prevails in this and in the upcoming years. In important emerging economies, however, the activity pace has not matched the expectations, despite the resilience of domestic demand. However, the Committee also highlights evidences of accommodation of commodities prices in the international markets, as well as greater volatility and dollar appreciation trend in the US. 
20. The Copom evaluates that the main scenario encompasses a more intense domestic activity pace in this and in the upcoming year. Recent information indicate resumption of investments and continuity of household consumption growth, the latter favored by public transfers and by the vigor in the labor market, which reflects in historically low unemployment rates and in wages growth. In general, domestic absorption has expanded at rates higher than GDP growth rates and tends to be benefited by the effects of fiscal policy actions, by the expansion of credit supply, both for individuals and corporates, and by the program of public services concession, among other factors. However, the Committee notes that the speed of materialization of these expected gains depends on the confidence strengthening of companies and households. 
21. The Copom observes that the main inflation scenario considers the materialization of the assumed trajectories regarding fiscal variables. For the Committee, conditions are created so that, in the horizon relevant for monetary policy, the balance of the public sector shifts to the neutral zone. The Committee also notes that the generation of primary surpluses in line with the working hypotheses considered for inflation projections, in addition to contributing to reduce the mismatch between supply and demand growth rates, strengthens the reduction trend of the public debt-to-GDP ratio and the positive perception regarding the macroeconomic environment in the medium and long terms. 
22. The Copom highlights that its main scenario also considers moderate credit expansion. Still regarding the credit market, the Committee considers opportune initiatives with the aim of moderating the concessions of subsidies through credit operations. 
23. In the factors market, the Copom highlights the narrow idleness margin in the labor market and it considers that, under such circumstances, a significant risk stems from the possibility of concession of wages increases incompatible with productivity growth and their negative impacts over inflation. Despite the moderation signs, the Committee evaluates that the wages dynamics remains originating inflationary cost pressures. 
24. The Committee considers that the exchange rate depreciation and volatility observed in the recent quarters enable a natural and expected correction in relative prices. For the Committee, these movements in the local currency market, to some extent, reflect prospects for the transition of international financial markets towards normality, among other dimensions, in terms of liquidity and interest rates. It is also important to highlight that, for the Committee, the aforementioned exchange rate depreciation is a source of inflationary pressure in shorter periods. However, the secondary effects stemming from it, and that would tend to materialize over longer periods, can and should be limited by appropriate monetary policy handling. 
25. The Copom evaluates that the high consumer inflation level in the last twelve months contributes for inflation to show resistance. In this context, the formal and informal indexation mechanisms and the deterioration in the economic agents’ perception regarding the inflation dynamics are also included. Considering the damage that the persistence of this process would cause to the decision-making process on consumption and investment, in the Committee’s view, it is necessary that, with the due promptness, it is reverted. 
26. In this context, the Copom understands that it is appropriate to continue the adjustment pace of the monetary conditions underway. 
27. Therefore, continuing the basic interest rate adjustment, the Copom unanimously decided to increase the Selic rate to 9.00% p.a., without bias. The Committee evaluates that this decision will contribute to set inflation into decline and ensure that this trend persists in the upcoming year. 
29. The Copom evaluates that the domestic demand tends to be relatively robust, especially household consumption, largely due to the effects of stimulus factors, such as income growth and moderate credit expansion. This scenario tends to prevail in this and in the upcoming semesters, when domestic demand will be impacted by the remaining effects of the policy actions recently implemented. These effects, the programs of public services concession, the permissions for the exploration of oil, among others, create good prospects for investments and industrial production. On the other hand, the Committee notes that the fragile international scenario still represents an aggregate demand restraining factor. These elements and the developments in the quasi fiscal framework and in the assets market are important parts of the context in which future monetary policy decisions will be taken, aiming to ensure the timely convergence of inflation to the targets path. 
30. The Copom emphasizes that the international evidence, in which it is ratified by the Brazilian experience, indicates that high inflation rates generate distortions that lead to higher risks and depress investments. These distortions are manifested, for example, in the shortening of the planning horizons of households, businesses and governments, as well as in the deterioration of the businessmen confidence. The Committee also emphasizes that high inflation rates subtract the purchasing power of wages and transfers, with negative repercussions over household’s confidence and consumption. Therefore, high inflation rates reduce the growth potential of the economy, as well as of jobs and income generation. 