1. Monthly inflation measured by the Extended Consumer Price Index (IPCA) changed 0.35% in September, after increasing by 0.24% in August. As a consequence, inflation in twelve months retreated to 5.86% in September (5.28% until September 2012). Market prices changed 7.37% in twelve months (5.93% until September 2012), and regulated prices recorded the record low (1.12%) of the historical series started in 1994, down from 3.44% until September 2012. Among market prices, the prices of tradable goods increased 6.43% (3.37% until September 2012), and the prices of non-tradable goods, 8.20% (8.28% until September 2012). The prices of food and beverages group registered 0.14% inflation in September, but still accumulate 9.23% in twelve months (9.53% until September 2012). On its turn, the prices of services rose 8.73% in twelve months (7.89% until September 2012). In short, regulated inflation retreats, at the same time that non-tradables inflation remains at high levels, and the tradables inflation is increasing. 
2. The average of the underlying inflation measures, calculated by the BCB, changed from 0.41% in August to 0.46% in September. As a consequence, on a twelve-month trailing basis, inflation reached 6.22% (0.99 p.p. above the one registered until September 2012). Specifically, the smoothed trimmed means IPCA core inflation changed from 0.42% in August to 0.43% in September. The double weight core inflation, from 0.42% to 0.46%, the core inflation by exclusion of regulated prices and household food, from 0.45% to 0.52%, the non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation, from 0.34% to 0.40%, and the core by exclusion, which excludes ten household food items and fuels, from 0.41% to 0.48%. The diffusion index stood at 57.8% in September (compared to 66.3% in the same month of the previous year). 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) increased 1.36% in September and accumulated change of 4.47% in the twelve months through September (8.17% in the twelve months through September 2012). The main component of this indicator, the Wholesale Price Index (IPA), changed 3.62% (against 9.18% until September 2012). According to the breakdown by stage of production, in the last twelve months, there was decrease of 0.80% in the prices of raw materials, and increases in the prices of intermediate goods (6.45%) and final goods (4.70%). Inflation measured by the Consumer Price Index (IPC), the second most important component of the IGP-DI, changed 5.29% in the twelve months through September (5.73% in the twelve months through September 2012). The Civil Construction National Index (INCC), component with the lowest weight in the IGP-DI, changed 8.09% (7.49% in the twelve months through September 2012), partially driven by the labor cost, which increased 9.88% in the period. On its turn, the Producer/Manufacturing Industry Price Index (IPP/IT), calculated by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), increased 1.48% in August, expanding by 5.97% in twelve months. The Copom considers that the effects of the behavior of wholesale prices on consumer inflation will depend on the current and prospective demand conditions and on the price setters' expectations regarding the future inflation path. 
4. The Economic Activity Index of the BCB (IBC-Br) incorporates estimate for the monthly production of the three sectors of the economy, as well as for taxes on products, and constitutes important coincident indicator of economic activity. Considering seasonally adjusted data, the IBC-Br retreated 0.3% in July, after increasing by 1.0% in June. Year-over-year, the IBC-Br grew 2.4% in June and 3.4% in July. In the last twelve months, the indicator grew 2.1%. The Consumer Confidence Index (ICC), from the Getúlio Vargas Foundation (FGV), expanded again in September, due to improvements in the perception of both the current situation and in the expectations regarding the future. The consumer confidence reached the highest level since February. On the other hand, the Services Sector Confidence Index (ICS) pointed to stability in September, standing below the recent historical average. On its turn, the industrial businessmen confidence, measured by the Industry Confidence Index (ICI), decreased in September, reaching the lowest level since July 2009. Regarding agriculture, the Agricultural Production Systematic Assessment (LSPA), carried out by the IBGE, indicates that grains production should grow by 15.5% in 2013, relative to the 2012 harvest. 
5. The Brazilian economy grew 1.5% in the second quarter of 2013, after expanding by 0.6% in the previous quarter, according to seasonally adjusted data released by the IBGE. Year-over-year, the expansion reached 3.3% (compared to 1.9% in the first quarter). Therefore, the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in the first half breached by 2.6% the registered in the first half of 2012, and the growth rate accumulated in the four previous quarters reached 1.9%. On the demad side, household consumption – the greatest component of aggregate demand – grew 0.3% at the margin, according to seasonally adjusted data, and 2.3% compared to the same quarter of 2012. This was the thirty-ninth consecutive expansion in the interannual comparison. On its turn, the government consumption grew 0.5% quarter-over-quarter and 1.0%, compared to the same quarter of 2012. The growth pace of Fixed Capital Gross Formation (FCGF) pointed to expansion of 3.6% at the margin, and of 9.0%, compared to the same quarter of 2012, indicating increase in the investment rate of the economy. 
6. Credit Conditions Indicators, elaborated by the Central Bank based on a quarterly survey carried out with institutions representing each segment of the credit market, evidenced, for the fourth quarter of 2013, the expectation of maintenance of the volume of concessions of new credit operations, both for the segment of big companies and for the micro, small and medium companies. Similarly, regarding credit to individuals, the analysis suggests some stability in the pace of concessions of credit lines destined to consumption – which were affected by the combined effect of interest rates elevation, improvement of default indicators and some cooling in the labor market. For the housing credit, which presents greater inertial component, the elevation in the concession levels is expected. 
7. Industrial activity showed stability in August, according to the seasonally adjuted series released by the IBGE, after falling by 2.4% in July. In August, the industrial production increased in 15 out of the 27 surveyed activity sectors, on a month-on-month basis. The monthly production was 1.2% below the one registered in August 2012, resulting in increase of 0.7% in the last twelve months. As a consequence, the industrial output in the first eight months of the year breached by 1.6% the one recorded in the same period of the previous year, with positive highlight for the production of automotive vehicles, which expanded by 11.0% according to this comparison basis. On its turn, the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) of the industrial sector regarding Brazil indicated improvement in September. According to data released by the National Confederation of Industry (CNI), real revenue in the manufacturing industry increased 4.6% in the first eight months of the year, compared to the same period of the previous year, while the number of hours worked did not change. 
8. Among the industry use categories, the production of capital goods increased 11.8% in August, year-over-year, the production of intermediate goods totaled -2.0%, of durable consumer goods, -6.3%, and of semidurable and non-durable consumer goods, -1.6%. Month-on-month, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, the production of capital goods in August increased 2.6%, of intermediate goods, 0.6%, and of durable consumer goods, 0.2%, while the one related to semi-durable and non-durable consumer goods, retreated 0.3%. Regarding growth accumulated in the last twelve months through August, there were expansions in the production of capital goods (4.6%) and in the production of durable consumer goods (3.2%). On its turn, the production of semi-durable and non-durable consumer goods increased 0.2%, and the one related to intermediate goods retreated by 0.2%, according to this comparison basis. 
9. The unemployment rate in the six metropolitan areas covered by the Monthly Employment Survey (PME), without seasonal adjustment, retreated to 5.3% in August, repeating the rate recorded in August 2012. Therefore, according to the BCB seasonally adjusted series, the unemployment rate in August reached again the record low of the historical series (5.3%), started in March 2002. The reduction of the Working Age Population (WAP) growth rate in the last years has contributed for the maintenance of the idleness rate at historically low levels. On the other hand, the activity rate showed stability in August, as the economically active population share represented 57.2% of the WAP (compared to 57.0% in August 2012). Still according to the PME, the average real income increased 1.3% in August, year-over-year, while real payroll increased 2.7%, according to the same comparison basis. Data released by the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) show that 127.6 thousand formal jobs were created in August (100.9 thousand in August 2012). In short, the set of available data indicates narrow idleness margin in the labor market, although there are some signs of moderation at the margin. 
10. Retail sales performed positively in July. According to the retail monthly survey (PMC), released by the IBGE, retail sales volume increased 6.0% in June, year-over-year. Broad retail sales volume, which includes vehicles and construction inputs, increased by 3.7%, according to the same comparison basis. According to the month-on-month seasonally adjusted series, retail sales changed by 1.9%, and broad retail sales, by 0.6%. Therefore, the broad retail sales growth rate in the last twelve months reached 5.8%, with expansion in all ten sectors surveyed. The Trade Confidence Index (ICOM), measured by the FGV, increased in the quarter ended in September, similarly to the occurred in the previous month. The Copom evaluates that the retail sales trajectory will continue to be influenced by governmental transfers, by the pace of real payroll growth and by the moderate credit expansion. 
11. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry, calculated by the FGV, without seasonal adjustment, reached 85.0% in September (84.9% in September 2012). According to the seasonally adjusted series calculated by the FGV, the Nuci in September reached 84.2%. Capacity utilization in the capital goods sector, according to the seasonally adjusted series, stood at 83.1%. In the sector of consumer goods, intermediate goods and construction inputs, the utilization capacity stood at 82.7%, 86.2% and 89.1%, respectively. On its turn, the absorption of capital goods grew 5.3% in the last twelve months ended in August. 
12. The twelve-month trailing trade balance result retreated to US$2.1 billion in September. This result stemmed from US$239.6 billion in exports and US$237.5 billion in imports, which diminished 2.8% and increased 6.0%, respectively, compared to the previous twelve months. On its turn, the current account deficit, accumulated in twelve months, reached US$80.6 billion in August, equivalent to 3.6% of the GDP. Foreign direct investment totaled US$61.1 billion in the twelve months through August, equivalent to 2.7% of the GDP. 
13. In the global economy, a scenario of low growth prospects in important advanced economies prevails, notably in the Euro Zone, and volatility indicators have responded to the prospects of monetary policy change and to the fiscal policy deadlocks in the US. High unemployment rates in Europe, coupled with the efforts of fiscal consolidation and political uncertainties, are translated into investment retreat and in low growth. The composite leading indicator, released by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), referring to August, and the PMI coincident indicators, relative to September, however, signal improvements at the margin in several advanced economies, with prospects of growth above the trend, in constrast to the observed in emerging economies. Regarding monetary policy, accommodative stances have prevailed in the advanced economies. In emerging economies, in general, monetary policy is expansionist. Inflation has remained at moderate levels in the US and in the Euro Zone, and in Japan, it consolidated above zero. 
14. The price of the Brent oil barrel has slightly retreated since the previous Copom meeting, reflecting some cooling in geopolitical risks. It bears highlighting that the geopolitical complexity that involves the oil sector tends to heighten the volatile behavior of prices, which also reflects the low predictability of some global demand components and the dependency of supply growth on long term risky investment projects. Since the last Copom meeting, the international prices of agricultural commodities have decreased 2.1%, while the ones relative to metals have fallen 1.0%. On its turn, the Food Price Index, calculated by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), changed -7.8% in the twelve months through September 2013. 
15. The identified shocks, and their impacts, were reassessed according to the new set of available information. The scenario considered in the simulations was based on the following assumptions: 
a) the projected adjustment for gasoline price for the whole year of 2013 was maintained at 5%, unchanged relative to the value considered at the August Copom meeting, 
b) the projected adjustment for household electricity price points to a decrease of nearly 16%, unchanged relative to the August Copom meeting. This estimate considers the direct impacts of the sector charges reductions announced, as well as readjustments and ordinary tariff revisions planned for this year, 
c) for the whole year of 2013, bottled gas prices are projected to increase by 2.5% and the fixed telephone tariff is projected to decrease 1.0%, the same values considered at the August Copom meeting, respectively, 
d) the projected adjustment, based on individual items, for the set of regulated prices inflation accumulated for the whole year of 2013, retreated to 1.5%, 0.3 p.p. below the value considered at the August Copom meeting, and 
e) the projected cumulative adjustment for the set of regulated prices in 2014 was maintained at 4.5%, the same value considered at the August Copom meeting. This projection is based on endogenous determination models for regulated prices, which compute, among other factors, seasonal components, market prices inflation, and the inflation measured by the IGP (General Price Index). 
16. The projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, based on the 360-day swap rates, on the baseline scenario, estimates 115 bps and 4 bps spreads for the fourth quarters of 2013 and 2014, respectively. 
17. The structural primary surplus that derives from the primary surplus trajectories for 2013 is considered as the fiscal indicator, according to the parameters set out in the Budget Guidelines Law (LDO)/2013, and, for 2014, according to the parameters set out in the Budget Guidelines Law Project (PLDO)/2014. Thus, in a given period, the inflation projection considers as fiscal impulse the variation of the structural surplus in comparison to the observed in the previous period. 
18. Since the last Copom meeting, the median of the projections compiled by the Investor Relations and Special Studies Department (Gerin) for the 2013 IPCA slightly increased, from 5.80% to 5.82%. For 2014, the median of the inflation projections increased from 5.84% to 5.95%. 
19. The baseline scenario assumes the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$2.20/US$1.00 and the Selic rate at 9.00% p.a. during the forecast period. Under this scenario, the projection for the 2013 inflation decreased relative to the value considered at the previous Copom meeting, however, it remains above the 4.50% midpoint target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). According to the market scenario, which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin with market analysts, in the period immediately prior to the Copom meeting, the 2013 IPCA inflation forecast also decreased relative to the value considered at the August meeting, and also stands above the inflation target. For 2014, in the baseline scenario, the inflation forecast decreased relative to the figure considered at the August Copom meeting and increased in the market scenario, standing both above the 4.5% target. For the third quarter of 2015, the inflation forecast stands above the target in both scenarios. 
20. The Copom evaluates that the monetary policy should contribute to the consolidation of a favorable longer-term macroeconomic environment. In this respect, the Copom reassures that, under the inflation targeting regime, it guides its decisions according to BCB projected inflation and based on the analysis of alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine prices dynamics. The Committee also understands that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to reduce uncertainties regarding the future behavior of headline inflation, facilitate the assessment of scenarios by the monetary authority, as well as help the process of coordination of economic agents’ expectations, particularly prices setters’. Additionally, it is noteworthy that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to intensify the effects of monetary policy actions, enabling them to affect in a more long-lasting manner the dynamics of headline inflation in the future. Although the Copom recognizes that other macroeconomic policy actions may influence the prices trajectory, it reaffirms its view that it is particularly under the responsibility of the monetary policy to remain especially vigilant, to guarantee that pressures detected in shorter horizons do not spread to longer horizons. 
21. The Copom considers that, since its last meeting, the risks to global financial stability remained high, particularly those derived from the ongoing deleveraging process in the main economic blocks. Despite identifying low probability of occurrence of extreme events in the international financial markets, the Committee considers that the external environment remains complex. The Committee evaluates that, in general, the prospects for moderate global activity this year have remained, with trend of intensification over the relevant horizon for the monetary policy. There are localized improvements in advanced economies, although the space to use monetary policy remains limited and the fiscal restraint scenario prevails in this and in the upcoming years. In important emerging economies, however, the activity pace has not matched the expectations, despite the resilience of domestic demand. The Committee highlights evidences of accommodation of commodities prices in the international markets, as well as that, since the last meeting, there was some cooling in the tensions and in the volatility which were then observed in the currency market. 
22. The Copom evaluates that the main scenario encompasses a more intense domestic activity pace in this and in the upcoming year. Recent information indicate resumption of investments and continuity of household consumption growth, the latter favored by public transfers and by the vigor in the labor market - which reflects in historically low unemployment rates and in wages growth. In general, domestic absorption has expanded at rates higher than GDP growth rates and tends to be benefited by the effects of fiscal policy actions, by the expansion of credit supply, both for individuals and corporates, and by the program of public services concession, among other factors. Regarding the external component of the aggregate demand, the main scenario anticipates a more benign course than that registered in recent years. However, the Committee notes that the speed of materialization of these expected gains depends on the confidence strengthening of companies and households. 
23. The Copom observes that the main inflation scenario considers the materialization of the assumed trajectories regarding fiscal variables. For the Committee, conditions are created so that, in the relevant horizon for monetary policy, the balance of the public sector shifts to the neutral zone. The Committee also notes that the generation of primary surpluses in line with the working hypotheses considered for inflation projections, on the one hand would contribute to reduce the mismatch between supply and demand growth rates, on the other hand, would contribute to create a positive perception regarding the macroeconomic environment in the medium and long terms. 
24. The Copom highlights that its main scenario also considers moderate credit expansion. Still regarding the credit market, the Committee considers opportune initiatives with the aim of moderating the concessions of subsidies through credit operations. 
25. In the factors market, the Copom highlights the narrow idleness margin in the labor market and it considers that, under such circumstances, a significant risk stems from the possibility of concession of wages increases incompatible with productivity growth and their negative impacts over inflation. Despite the moderation signs, the Committee evaluates that the wages dynamics remains originating inflationary cost pressures. 
26. The Committee considers that the exchange rate depreciation and volatility observed in the recent quarters enable a natural and expected correction in relative prices. For the Committee, these movements in the local currency market, to some extent, reflect prospects for the transition of international financial markets towards normality, among other dimensions, in terms of liquidity and interest rates. It is also important to highlight that, for the Committee, the aforementioned exchange rate depreciation is a source of inflationary pressure in shorter periods. However, the secondary effects stemming from it, and that would tend to materialize over longer periods, can and should be limited by appropriate monetary policy handling. 
27. The Copom evaluates that the high consumer inflation level in the last twelve months contributes for inflation to still show resistance. In this context, the formal and informal indexation mechanisms and the economic agents’ perception regarding the inflation dynamics are also included. Considering the damage that the persistence of this process would cause to the decision-making process on consumption and investment, in the Committee’s view, it is necessary that, with the due promptness, it is reverted. 
28. In this context, the Copom understands that it is appropriate to continue the adjustment pace of the monetary conditions underway. 
29. Therefore, continuing the basic interest rate adjustment, the Copom unanimously decided to increase the Selic rate to 9.50% p.a., without bias. The Committee evaluates that this decision will contribute to set inflation into decline and ensure that this trend persists in the upcoming year. 
31. The Copom evaluates that the domestic demand tends to be relatively robust, especially household consumption, largely due to the effects of stimulus factors, such as income growth and moderate credit expansion. This scenario tends to prevail in this and in the upcoming semesters, when domestic demand will be impacted by the remaining effects of the policy actions recently implemented. These effects, the programs of public services concession, the permissions for the exploration of oil, among others, create good prospects for investments and industrial production. On the other hand, the Committee notes that the fragile international scenario still represents an aggregate demand restraining factor, despite the prospects of progress in the relevant horizon. These elements and the developments in the quasi fiscal framework and in the assets market are important parts of the context in which future monetary policy decisions will be taken, aiming to ensure the timely convergence of inflation to the targets path. 
32. The Copom emphasizes that the international evidence, in which it is ratified by the Brazilian experience, indicates that high inflation rates generate distortions that lead to higher risks and depress investments. These distortions are manifested, for example, in the shortening of the planning horizons of households, companies and governments, as well as in the deterioration of the businessmen confidence. The Committee also emphasizes that high inflation rates subtract the purchasing power of wages and transfers, with negative repercussions over household’s confidence and consumption. Therefore, high inflation rates reduce the growth potential of the economy, as well as of jobs and income generation. 