1. Monthly inflation measured by the Extended Consumer Price Index (IPCA) changed 0.92% in December, 0.13 percentage points (p.p.) above the one recorded in December 2012. As a consequence, inflation in 2013 reached 5.91% (5.84% in 2012). Market prices changed 7.29% in 2013 (6.56% in 2012), and regulated prices, 1.54% (3.65% in 2012). Among market prices, the prices of tradable goods increased 6.01% in 2013 (4.47% in the previous year), and the prices of non-tradable goods, 8.43% (8.46% in 2012). On its turn, the prices of food and beverages group increased 8.48% in 2013 (9.86% in 2012), and the prices of services rose 8.75% (same value observed in 2012). In short, available information suggest some persistence of inflation, which partially reflects the fact that services inflation remains at high levels. 
2. The average of the underlying inflation measures, calculated by the BCB, changed from 0.54% in November to 0.76% in December. As a consequence, on a twelve-month trailing basis, inflation reached 6.28% (0.68 p.p. above the one registered in December 2012). Specifically, the smoothed trimmed means IPCA core inflation changed from 0.45% in November to 0.58% in December. The double weight core inflation, from 0.52% to 0.79%, the core inflation by exclusion of regulated prices and household food, from 0.60% to 0.96%, the non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation, from 0.55% to 0.72%, and the core by exclusion, which excludes ten household food items and fuels, from 0.57% to 0.74%. The diffusion index stood at 69.3% in December (compared to 70.7% in the same month of the previous year). 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) increased 0.69% in December, on a month-on-month basis, and 5.52% on a twelve- month trailing basis (8.10% in 2012). The main component of this indicator, the Wholesale Price Index (IPA), changed 5.07% in 2013 (against 9.13% in 2012), with retreat of 1.76% in the prices of agricultural products in 2013 and increase of 7.87% in the prices of industrial products. Inflation measured by the Consumer Price Index (IPC), the second most important component of the IGP-DI, changed 5.63% in 2013 (5.74% in 2012). The Civil Construction National Index (INCC), component with the lowest weight in the IGP-DI, changed 8.09% (7.12% in 2012), partially driven by pressures stemming from the labor cost, which increased 9.77% in the period. On its turn, the Producer/Manufacturing Industry Price Index (IPP/IT), calculated by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), increased 0.62% in November month-on-month, expanding by 5.47% in twelve months. The Copom considers that the effects of the behavior of wholesale prices on consumer inflation will depend on the current and prospective demand conditions and on the price setters' expectations regarding the future inflation path. 
4. The Economic Activity Index of the BCB (IBC-Br) incorporates estimate for the monthly production of the three sectors of the economy, as well as for taxes on products, and constitutes important coincident indicator of the economic activity. In October, the IBC-Br increased 0.8% month-on-month and 2.7% relative to October 2012. The composite Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) regarding Brazil pointed to intensification of the economic activity for the fourth consecutive month in December. On its turn, the Consumer Confidence Index (ICC), from the Getúlio Vargas Foundation (FGV), retreated in December and, consequently, reverted the increase observed in the previous month, according to the seasonally adjusted series. On the other hand, the industrial businessmen confidence, measured by the Industry Confidence Index (ICI), increased in December, similarly to the observed in November. The Service Confidence Index (ICS) also increased in December. Regarding agriculture, the Agricultural Production Systematic Assessment (LSPA), carried out by the IBGE, indicates that grains production should grow by 0.7% in 2014, relative to the 2013 harvest. 
5. The Brazilian economy grew 2.2% in the third quarter of 2013, against the same quarter of 2012, after increasing 3.3% in the second quarter, according to the same comparison basis. According to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, after increasing by 1.8% in the second quarter, the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) decreased by 0.5% in the third quarter, quarter-over-quarter. As a consequence, the growth rate accumulated in four quarters changed from 2.0% to 2.3%. From the aggregate demand side, househould consumption continued in expansion, with growth of 1.0% in the third quarter, quarter-over-quarter, and of 2.3% relative to the same quarter of 2012 – fortieth consecutive increase according to this comparison basis. On its turn, the government consumption grew 1.2% quarter-over-quarter and 2.3% compared to the same quarter of 2012. Fixed Capital Gross Formation (FBCF) increased 7.3% relative to the same quarter of 2012, despite the retreat of 2.2% quarter-over-quarter. 
6. After increasing by 0.6% in October, the industrial activity retreated by 0.2% in November, according to the seasonally adjusted series, released by the IBGE. Therefore, the industrial production in November stood 0.4% above the one registered in November 2012. Between January and November, industrial production increased 1.4% relative to the same period of last year, with highlight for the production of automotive vehicles, with expansion of 9.0%, as well as for other transportation equipment, and oil refining and ethanol production (with expansion of 7.8% and 7.7%, respectively). It bears highlighting that the production grew in 16 out of the 27 surveyed activities, according to the same comparison basis. The PMI of the industrial sector indicates expansion in December. According to data released by the National Confederation of Industry (CNI), real revenue in the manufacturing industry increased 4.6% between January and October 2013, compared to the same period of the previous year, while the number of hours worked grew 0.1%. 
7. Among the use categories, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, the production of capital goods retreated 2.6% in November, on the other hand, the production of intermediate goods, durable consumer goods and semidurable and non-durable consumer goods increased 1.2%, 0.3% and 0.3%, respectively. Regarding growth accumulated in the last twelve months through November, there were expansions in the production of capital goods (11.6%) and durable consumer goods (0.8%), retreat in the production of semidurable and non-durable consumer goods (-0.4%) and stability in the production of intermediate goods. 
8. The unemployment rate in the six metropolitan areas covered by the Monthly Employment Survey (PME), without seasonal adjustment, retreated to 4.6% in November, repeating, therefore, the record low of the historical series observed in December 2012. The unemployment rate also reached the record low of the historical series started in 2002, according to the BCB seasonally adjusted series (5.1%), which partially reflects reduction in the economically active population (PEA). Still according to the PME, the average real income increased 3.0% in November, year-over-year, while real payroll increased 2.3%, according to the same comparison basis. Data released by the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) show that 47.5 thousand formal jobs were created in November (compared to 46.1 thousand in November 2012). In short, the available data indicate narrow idleness margin in the labor market, although there are some signs of moderation at the margin. 
9. According to the retail monthly survey (PMC), released by the IBGE, broad retail sales volume, which includes vehicles and construction inputs, increased by 2.2% in October 2013, year-over-year, and retail sales volume grew by 5.3%. According to the seasonally adjusted series, the month-on-month broad retail sales changed by 1.8%, and retail sales, by 0.2%. In the last twelve months, the broad retail sales growth rate reached 3.9%, with expansion in all ten sectors surveyed. The Trade Confidence Index (ICOM), measured by the FGV, recorded the fifth consecutive high in December, due to improvements in the perception of the current situation. The Copom evaluates that the retail sales trajectory will continue to be influenced by governmental transfers, by the pace of real payroll growth and by the moderate credit expansion. 
10. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry, calculated by the FGV, without seasonal adjustment, reached 84.9% in December (84.8% in December 2012). According to the seasonally adjusted series calculated by the FGV, the Nuci in December reached 84.2%. Capacity utilization in the capital goods sector stood at 81.8%. In the sector of consumer goods, intermediate goods and construction inputs, the utilization capacity stood at 84.6%, 85.1% and 90.1%, respectively. On its turn, the absorption of capital goods grew 11.3% in the last twelve months ended in November. 
11. The twelve-month trailing trade balance result reached US$2.6 billion in 2013 (US$19.4 billion in 2012). This result stemmed from US$242.2 billion in exports and US$239.6 billion in imports, which diminished 0.2% and increased 7.4%, respectively, compared to the previous year. On its turn, the current account deficit accumulated in twelve months reached US$81.1 billion in November, equivalent to 3.7% of the GDP. Foreign direct investment totaled US$62.8 billion in the twelve months through November, equivalent to 2.8% of the GDP. 
12. In the global economy, prospects point to more intense activity pace in important advanced economies. In Europe, despite recent improvements, high unemployment rates, coupled with the fiscal consolidation and political uncertainties, constitute elements constraining investments and growth. It bears highlighting that composite leading indicators, released by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), referring to November, and the PMI coincident indicators, relative to December, signal improvements at the margin in several advanced and emerging economies, especially in the manufacturing sector, with prospects of growth in line with the trend or above it. Regarding monetary policy, the Federal Reserve has initiated process of gradual reduction of the assets purchase program, however, in general, accommodative stances prevail in the advanced economies. Likewise, in the emerging economies, the monetary policy is predominantly expansionist. Inflation remains at moderate or low levels in the US, in the Euro Zone and in Japan. 
13. The price of the Brent oil barrel slightly retreated since the previous Copom meeting. It bears highlighting that the geopolitical complexity that involves the oil sector tends to heighten the volatile behavior of prices, which also reflects the low predictability of some global demand components and the dependency of supply growth on long term risky investment projects. Since the last Copom meeting, the international prices of agricultural commodities have retreated 3.3%, while the ones relative to metals have increased 4.9%. On its turn, the Food Price Index, calculated by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), have retreated 3.5% in the twelve months through December 2013. 
14. The identified shocks, and their impacts, were reassessed according to the new set of available information. The scenario considered in the simulations was based on the following assumptions: 
a) for the whole year of 2014, gasoline and bottled gas prices are projected to remain stable, 
b) the projected adjustment for household electricity price points to an increase of 7.5% for the whole year of 2014, 
c) the fixed telephone tariff is projected to remain stable for the whole year of 2014, 
d) the projected adjustment, based on individual items, for the set of regulated prices inflation accumulated for the whole year of 2014, was maintained at 4.5%, the same value considered at the November Copom meeting, and 
e) the projected cumulative adjustment for the set of regulated prices in 2015 corresponds to 4.5%. These projections are based on endogenous determination models for regulated prices, which compute, among other factors, seasonal components, market prices inflation, and the inflation measured by the IGP (General Price Index). 
15. The estimated path for the spreads over the Selic rate, based on the 360-day swap rates, on the baseline scenario, projects 0 basis point (bp) and 42 bps for the fourth quarters of 2014 and 2015, respectively. 
16. The structural primary surplus that derives from the primary surplus trajectories both for 2014 and 2015 is considered as the fiscal indicator, according to the parameters set out in the Budget Guidelines Law (LDO)/2014. Therefore, in a given period, the fiscal impulse corresponds to the variation of the structural surplus in comparison to the observed in the previous period. 
17. Since the last Copom meeting, the median of the projections compiled by the Investor Relations and Special Studies Department (Gerin) for the 2014 IPCA increased to 6% from 5.92%. For 2015, the median of the inflation projections stands at 5.5%. 
18. The baseline scenario assumes the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$2.40/US$1.00 and the Selic rate at 10% p.a. during the forecast period. Under this scenario, the projection for the 2014 inflation increased relative to the value considered at the previous Copom meeting, and remains above the 4.5% midpoint target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). According to the market scenario, which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin with market analysts, in the period immediately prior to the Copom meeting, the 2014 IPCA inflation forecast also increased relative to the value considered at the November meeting, and also stands above the inflation target. For 2015, the inflation forecast stands above the target in both scenarios. 
19. The Copom evaluates that the monetary policy should contribute to the consolidation of a favorable longer-term macroeconomic environment. In this respect, the Copom reassures that, under the inflation targeting regime, it guides its decisions according to BCB projected inflation and based on the analysis of alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine prices dynamics. The Committee also understands that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to reduce uncertainties regarding the future behavior of headline inflation, facilitate the assessment of scenarios by the monetary authority, as well as help the process of coordination of economic agents’ expectations, particularly prices setters’. Additionally, it is noteworthy that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to intensify the effects of monetary policy actions, enabling them to affect in a more long-lasting manner the dynamics of headline inflation in the future. Although the Copom recognizes that other macroeconomic policy actions may influence the prices trajectory, it reaffirms its view that it is particularly under the responsibility of the monetary policy to remain especially vigilant, to guarantee that pressures detected in shorter horizons do not spread to longer horizons. 
20. The Copom considers that, since its last meeting, the risks to global financial stability remained high, particularly those derived from changes in the yield curve slope of major advanced economies. Despite identifying low probability of occurrence of extreme events in the international financial markets, the Committee considers that the external environment remains complex. For the Committee, supported on positive data recently released, the prospects for more intense global activity throughout the relevant horizon for the monetary policy have remained. Indeed, there are improvements in advanced economies, including countries from the Euro Area, although, in general, the space to use monetary policy remains limited and the fiscal restraint scenario prevails in this and in the upcoming years. In important emerging economies, however, the activity pace has not matched the expectations, despite the resilience of the domestic demand. The Committee also highlights evidences of accommodation of commodities prices in the international markets, as well as of some tension and volatility episodes in the currencies’ markets. 
21. The Copom evaluates that the main scenario encompasses relatively stable domestic activity expansion pace in this year, compared to 2013, and that recent information indicate, in the relevant horizon for the monetary policy, changes in the composition of aggregate supply an demand. The domestic absorption has expanded at rates higher than those observed for the GDP growth and, according to the Committee, it tends to be benefited by the effects of fiscal policy actions, of the moderate expansion of credit supply (especially, of credit to consumption), of the program of public services concession and of the program of permission of oil exploration, among other factors. For the Committee, however, the outlook that has been taking shape is that consumption would tend to keep growing, but at a more moderate pace than the observed over the recent years, and investments would gain momentum. Regarding the external component of aggregate demand, the scenario of greater global growth, combined with the depreciation of the real, contributes to make this component more favorable to the growth of the Brazilian economy. Focusing on the supply side, the Committee evaluates that more favorable prospects for the competitiveness of industry and agriculture are emerging and, considering the relevant horizon for monetary policy, the services sector tends to grow at rates lower than those recorded over the recent years. It is plausible to claim that these developments - coupled with advances in terms of qualification of the labor force - will be reflected in a more efficient allocation of the production factors of the economy and in productivity gains. The Committee also notes that the speed of materialization of the aforementioned changes and of their expected gains depends on the strengthening of companies and households’ confidence. 
22. The Copom observes that the main inflation scenario considers the materialization of the assumed trajectories regarding fiscal variables and the creation of conditions so that, in the relevant horizon for monetary policy, the balance of the public sector shifts to the neutral zone. The Committee also notes that the generation of primary surpluses in line with the working hypotheses considered for the inflation projections, on the one hand, would contribute to reduce the mismatch between supply and demand growth rates, on the other hand, it would contribute to create a positive perception regarding the macroeconomic environment in the medium and long terms. It should also be emphasized that the generation of primary surpluses at levels close to the average generated over the recent years would help to reduce the public debt financing cost, with favorable impact on the cost of capital in general, which would stimulate private investment in the medium and long term. 
23. The Copom highlights that its main scenario also considers moderate credit expansion. Still regarding the credit market, the Committee considers opportune initiatives with the aim of moderating concessions of subsidies through credit operations. 
24. Regarding the factors market, the Copom highlights the narrow idleness margin in the labor market and it considers that, under such circumstances, a significant risk stems from the possibility of concession of wages increases incompatible with productivity growth and their negative impacts over inflation. Although the projected adjustment for the minimum wage this year is not as significant as in the previous years, and considering the occurrence over the recent quarters of real wage changes more consistent with the gains estimated for the labor productivity, the Committee evaluates that the wages dynamics remains originating inflationary cost pressures. 
25. The Committee considers that the exchange rate depreciation and volatility observed in the recent quarters enable a natural and expected correction in relative prices. For the Committee, these movements in the local currency market, to some extent, reflect prospects for the transition of international financial markets towards normality, among other dimensions, in terms of liquidity and interest rates. It is also important to highlight that, for the Committee, the aforementioned exchange rate depreciation is a source of inflationary pressure in shorter periods. However, the secondary effects stemming from it, and that would tend to materialize over longer periods, can and should be limited by appropriate monetary policy handling. 
26. The Copom evaluates that the high consumer inflation level in the last twelve months contributes for inflation to still show resistance, which, by the way, has been slightly above the level which was previously anticipated. In this context, the formal and informal indexation mechanisms and the economic agents’ perception regarding the inflation dynamics are also included. Considering the damage that the persistence of this process would cause to the decision-making process on consumption and investment, in the Committee’s view, it is necessary that, with the due promptness, it is reverted. In this context, the Copom considers that it is appropriate to continue the ongoing adjustment pace of the monetary conditions. 
27. Therefore, continuing the adjustment process of the basic interest rate, initiated at the April 2013 meeting, the Copom unanimously, at this time, decided to increase the Selic rate by 0.50 p.p., to 10.50% p.a., without bias. 
29. The Copom evaluates that the domestic demand tends to be relatively robust. On the one hand, household consumption tends to continue expanding, due to the effects of stimulus factors, such as income growth and moderate credit expansion, on the other hand, favorable financial conditions, concession of public services, expansion of oil exploration areas, among others, create good prospects for investments. These elements and the developments in the quasi fiscal framework and in the assets market are important parts of the context in which future monetary policy decisions will be taken, aiming to ensure the timely convergence of inflation to the targets path. 
30. The Copom emphasizes that the international evidence, in which it is ratified by the Brazilian experience, indicates that high inflation rates generate distortions that lead to higher risks and depress investments. These distortions are manifested, for example, in the shortening of the planning horizons of households, companies and governments, as well as in the deterioration of the businessmen confidence. The Committee also emphasizes that high inflation rates subtract the purchasing power of wages and transfers, with negative repercussions over household’s confidence and consumption. Therefore, high inflation rates reduce the growth potential of the economy, as well as of jobs and income generation. 