1. Monthly inflation measured by the Extended Consumer Price Index (IPCA) reached 0.78% in May, 0.17 percentage points (p.p.) above the one recorded in the previous month. As a consequence, inflation accumulated in 12 months reached 9.32% in May (8.47% in May 2015), with market prices increasing by 8.82% (6.82% in May 2015), and regulated prices, 10.90% (14.09% in May 2015). Specifically regarding market prices, the prices of tradable goods increased 9.55% in twelve months through May (5.71% in May 2015) and the prices of non-tradable goods, 8.19% (7.79% in May 2015). It bears noticing that the prices of the food and beverages group increased 12.72% in twelve months through May (8.80% in May 2015), and the prices of services rose 7.51% (8.23% in May 2015). In short, available information partially reflects the more persistent dynamics of prices in the services sector – but already showing some deceleration -, the realignment process of relative prices and temporary supply shocks in the food and beverages group. 
2. The average of the underlying monthly inflation measures, calculated by the BCB, changed from 0.61% in April to 0.73% in May. As a consequence, on a twelve-month trailing basis, average core inflation reached 8.08% (0.85 p.p. above the one registered in May 2015). The double weight core inflation changed from 0.78% in April to 0.81% in May, the non-smoothed trimmed means IPCA core inflation changed from 0.54% to 0.62%, the smoothed trimmed means IPCA core inflation, from 0.67% to 0.73%, the core inflation by exclusion of ten household food items, as well as fuels, changed from 0.65% to 0.98%, and the core inflation by exclusion of regulated prices and household food changed from 0.43% to 0.50%. The diffusion index stood at 63% in May (7.24 p.p. below the one recorded in May 2015). 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) increased 1.13% in May, reaching 11.26% on a twelve-month trailing basis (4.83% in May 2015). The main component of this indicator, the Wholesale Price Index (IPA), changed 12.92% in twelve months through May (3.29% in May 2015), with increases of 24.56% in the prices of agricultural products and 8.46% in the prices of industrial products. Inflation measured by the Consumer Price Index (IPC), the second most important component of the IGP-DI, changed 9.15% in the same period (8.63% in May 2015). The Civil Construction National Index (INCC), component with the lowest weight in the IGP-DI, increased 6.36% (5.74% in May 2015), with the labor costs growing 7.81% in the period. On its turn, the Producer/Manufacturing Industry Price Index (IPP/IT), calculated by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), decreased 0.71% in April, changing 5.03% in twelve months. The Copom considers that the effects of the behavior of wholesale prices on consumer inflation will depend on the current and prospective demand conditions and on the price setters' expectations regarding the future inflation path. 
4. The Economic Activity Index of the BCB (IBC-Br) incorporates estimates for the monthly production of the three sectors of the economy, as well as for taxes on products, and constitutes important coincident indicator of the economic activity. In March 2016, the IBC-Br decreased 6.31% year-over-year and 0.36% month-on-month seasonally adjusted. The composite Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) regarding Brazil, reached in May the lowest level in this survey history, 38.3, after seasonal adjustment, indicating strong contraction in the private sector activity. The Industry Confidence Index (ICI), the Services Confidence Index (ICS), and the Consumer Confidence Index (ICC), from the Getúlio Vargas Foundation (FGV), increased 1.7, 1.2 and 3.5 p.p., respectively, between April and May. Regarding agriculture, the Agricultural Production Systematic Assessment (LSPA), carried out by the IBGE, projects a decrease of 1.9% in the grains production in 2016, relative to the 2015 harvest. 
5. The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) at market prices fell 0.3% in the first quarter of 2016, quarter-over-quarter, after falling by 1.3% in the last quarter of 2015, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE. Year-over-year, there was a retraction of 5.4% in the first quarter of 2016, after decreasing by 5.9% in the last quarter of 2015. From the aggregate demand side, household consumption decreased by 1.7% quarter-over-quarter, according to seasonally adjusted data, and 6.3% over the same quarter of 2015. On its turn, government consumption increased 1.1% at margin, but decreased 1.4% year-over-year. The Gross Fixed Capital Formation (GFCF) decreased by 2.7% quarter-over-quarter, and 17.5% over the first quarter 2015. 
6. The industrial activity remained stable in April, increasing 0.1% month-on-month, according to the seasonally adjusted series released by the IBGE. Therefore, the industrial production accumulates a change of -9.6% in the last twelve months through April 2016. According to the observed series, the industrial production decreased 7.2% in April, year-over-year, with negative results in three of the four use categories and in 21 out of the 26 surveyed activities. According to data released by the National Confederation of Industry (CNI), real revenue in the manufacturing industry decreased 0.6% in April 2016, month-on-month, according to the seasonally adjusted series, and it stands at a level 9.9% lower than the one registered in April 2015. The PMI of the industrial sector, on its turn, decreased from 42.6 in April to 41.6 in May, the lowest level since the 2008 crisis, pointing to strong deceleration, which is confirmed by the retraction observed in the investment goods market. 
7. Among the use categories, comparing the April and March productions, according to the seasonally adjusted data series, durable consumer goods (-4.4%) and semi and non-durable goods (-0.6%) registered decrease. On the other hand, capital goods (1.2%) and intermediate goods (0.5%) registered expansion in the month. Regarding year-over-year growth, there was a decrease in the production in three of the four categories: durable consumer goods (-23.7%), capital goods (-16.5%), intermediate goods (-7.5%) and semi and non-durable consumer goods (+1.9%). 
8. According to the Continuous National Household Sample Survey (PNADC), the unemployment rate in the moving quarter ended in April was estimated at 11.2%, an increase of 3.2 p.p. compared to the same period last year. Data released by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security (MTPS) showed reduction of 62.8 thousand formal jobs in April, while 1.83 million formal jobs were closed in the last twelve months. In short, the set of available data confirm intensification of the process of distension in the labor market. 
9. According to the retail monthly survey (PMC), released by the IBGE, the retail sales volume decreased 5.7% in March, year-over-year. On its turn, broad retail sales volume, which includes vehicles and construction inputs, decreased 7.9% in March, according to the same comparison basis. The month-on-month changes were -0.9% and -1.1%, respectively, according to the seasonally adjusted series, with retraction in eight of the ten sectors surveyed. In twelve months, the retail sales volume fell by 5.8% and the broad retail sales volume decreased 9.6%. The Trade Confidence Index (ICOM), measured by the FGV, increased 4.3% in May, and reached 70.9 points, the highest level since June 2015. 
10. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry, calculated by the FGV, without seasonal adjustment, reached 73.1% in May and, according to the seasonally adjusted series, 73.8%. Among the industry use categories, according to the seasonally adjusted series, the ones showing the highest Nuci are non-durable consumer goods (77.2%) and consumer goods (74.7%), followed by intermediate goods (74.1%), durable consumer goods (68.9%) and capital goods (66.0%). On its turn, the absorption of capital goods decreased 22.7% in the last twelve months through April. 
11. According to the Ministry of Development, Industry and Foreign Trade (MDIC), the twelve-month trailing trade balance surplus reached US$41.7 billion in May 2016. This result stemmed from US$190.0 billion in exports and US$148.3 billion in imports, with retreats of 9.4% and 29.8%, respectively, relative to the cumulative results through May 2015. On its turn, the current account deficit accumulated in twelve months reached US$34.1 billion in April 2016, equivalent to 2.0% of the GDP. Foreign Direct Investment (according to the Direct Investment Liabilities concept) totaled US$79.9 billion, according to the same comparison basis, equivalent to 4.6% of the GDP. 
12. Regarding the global economy, leading indicators point to moderation trend in the horizon relevant for the monetary policy, with growth rates relatively more homogeneous in advanced economies, despite being low and below potential growth. Particularly about Europe, despite recent monetary policy actions, high unemployment rates, coupled with the fiscal consolidation and political uncertainties, constitute elements restraining investments and growth. In the United States, the trend is of economic recovery, however, some cooling in the dynamics of growth is anticipated. In the emerging economies, the activity pace has been constantly revised downwards, in a scenario surrounded by uncertainties regarding the loss of strength in China and their implications for the global economy. Regarding the monetary policy, in general, accommodative stances prevail in advanced and emerging economies, reinforced by signs of a more gradual process of normalization of monetary conditions in the US. The inflation rates remain at low levels in the advanced economies and relatively high in the emerging ones. 
13. The price of the Brent oil barrel increased since the previous Copom meeting, reaching levels around US$52. It bears highlighting that the geopolitical complexity that involves the oil sector tends to heighten the volatile behavior of prices. This volatile behavior also reflects the low predictability of some components of global demand, accentuated by the effects of the slowdown of the Chinese economy, and of supply, influenced by the reduction of investments in the production process. Since the last Copom meeting, the international prices of agricultural and metal commodities have increased 2.7% and 1.7%, respectively. On its turn, the Food Price Index, calculated by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), fell 6.8% in the twelve months through May 2016. 
14. The identified shocks, and their impacts, were reassessed according to the new set of available information. 
15. For the set of regulated prices inflation, the projected change is 6.8% in 2016, unchanged relative to the April Copom meeting. Among other factors, this projection considers average increase of 19.7% in the water and sewage tariffs, of 13.6% in the prices of health plans and reduction of 3.5% in electricity prices. For 2017, an increase of 5.0% is considered, unchanged relative to the value projected at the last three meetings. The items for which there are more information available were projected individually and, for the others, the projections are based on endogenous determination models for regulated prices, which compute, among other factors, seasonal components, market prices inflation and the IGP (General Price Index) change. 
16. The estimate path for the spreads over the Selic rate, based on the 360-day swap rates, on the baseline scenario, projects 49 basis points (bps) and 8 bps for the fourth quarters of 2016 and 2017, respectively. 
17. The structural primary surplus is considered as the fiscal indicator. It derives from the trajectories of primary deficits set at 2.8% of the GDP for 2016 at 0.9% of the GDP for 2017, according to the project of change in the 2016 LDO (Budgetary Guidelines Law) and to the 2017 PLDO (Draft Budgetary Guidelines Law). It also bears emphasizing that, in a given period, the fiscal impulse corresponds to the variation of the structural result in comparison to the observed in the previous period. 
18. Since the last Copom meeting, the median of the projections compiled by the Investor Relations and Special Studies Department (Gerin) for the 2016 IPCA changed from 6.98% to 7.12% and, for 2017, it reduced from 5.80% to 5.50%. 
19. The baseline scenario considers the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$3.60/US$1.00 and the Selic rate at 14.25% p.a. during the forecast period. Under this scenario, the inflation projection for 2016, compared to the value considered at the previous Copom meeting, increased and remains above the 4.5% midpoint target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). On its turn, the inflation projection for 2017, in the baseline scenario, fell to the 4.5% midpoint target established by the CMN. According to the market scenario, which incorporates the market expectations for the exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin with market analysts, in the period immediately prior to the Copom meeting, the inflation projection for 2016 increased compared to the value considered at the April meeting. The inflation projection for 2017, on its turn, reduced relative to the projection considered at the previous meeting. However, both for 2016 and for 2017, the projections stand above the 4.5% inflation target. 
20. The Copom emphasizes that the international evidence, which is ratified by the Brazilian experience, indicates that high inflation rates generate distortions that lead to higher risks and depress investments. These distortions are manifested, for example, in the shortening of planning horizons of households, companies and governments, as well as in the deterioration of businessmen confidence. The Committee also emphasizes that high inflation rates reduce the purchasing power of wages and transfers, with negative repercussions over the households’ confidence and consumption. As a consequence, high inflation rates reduce the potential of economic growth, as well as of jobs and income generation. 
21. In view of this, the Copom evaluates that the monetary policy should contribute to the consolidation of a favorable longer-term macroeconomic environment. In this sense, the Copom reassures that, under the inflation targeting regime, it guides its decisions according to the BCB’s projected inflation and based on the analysis of alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine prices dynamics. The Committee also understands that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to reduce uncertainties regarding the future behavior of headline inflation, facilitate the assessment of scenarios by the monetary authority, as well as help the process of coordination of economic agents’ expectations, particularly prices setters’. Additionally, it is noteworthy that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to intensify the effects of monetary policy actions, enabling them to affect, in a more long-lasting manner, the dynamics of headline inflation in the future. Although the Copom recognizes that other macroeconomic policy actions may influence the prices trajectory, it reaffirms its view that it is particularly under the responsibility of the monetary policy to remain especially vigilant, to guarantee that pressures detected in shorter horizons do not spread to longer horizons. 
22. The Committee considers that the external environment remains especially complex. However, despite the occurrence of episodes of higher volatility affecting important emerging economies, the Committee also identifies low probability of occurrence of extreme events in the international financial markets. For the Committee, global activity tends to grow more slowly throughout the monetary policy relevant horizon. Recent prospects indicate modest activity recovery in the advanced economies, while important emerging economies experience a transition period. In this context, of reduction in the activity pace, it bears highlighting the ongoing concern regarding the Chinese economy and its developments over other economies, coupled with the uncertainties regarding the US economy outlook. 
23. Still regarding international financial markets, the Copom highlights moderation in the dynamics of commodities prices, despite some recent increases. Regarding oil, the Committee highlights that, regardless of the behavior of the domestic gasoline prices, the evolution of international prices tends to be transmitted to the domestic economy through productive chains, such as the petrochemical. 
24. In addition, it should be noted the increased uncertainty generated by low oil prices and their implications for oil companies and producing countries, as well as for financial markets in general, with risks to global financial stability. 
25. The Copom reaffirms that, in accordance to the macroeconomic adjustment process underway, the available indicators show that domestic absorption and GDP growth rates continue to adjust, indicating low domestic activity expansion pace this year. This process has been especially intensified by the uncertainties arising from the effect of non-economic events. In particular, investment has retreated, mainly influenced by the occurrence of these events, and private consumption also decreases, in line with credit, employment and income data. However, for the Committee, after a necessary period of adjustments, which has been more intense and longer than anticipated, as companies’ and households’ confidence strengthen, the activity pace tends to intensify. Moreover, the Committee evaluates that, in the medium term, important changes should take place in the aggregate supply and demand composition. Consumption tends to grow at a moderate pace and investments tend to gain momentum. These changes, coupled with other ones currently underway, anticipate an aggregate demand growth composition in the medium term more favorable to potential growth. Regarding the external component of aggregate demand, the depreciation of the BRL contributes to make this component more favorable to the Brazilian economic growth. Regarding the supply side, the Committee evaluates that, in longer horizons, more favorable prospects for the competitiveness of industry, agriculture and livestock emerge. The services sector, on its turn, tends to grow at rates lower than those recorded over the recent years. 
26. For the Committee, it is plausible to claim that these developments will be reflected in a more efficient allocation of the production factors of the economy and in productivity gains. However, the speed of materialization of these changes and of the gains resulting from them depends, fundamentally, on a path of primary surpluses that strengthens the perception of the public sector balance sustainability, in addition to the reduction of uncertainties surrounding the domestic and international environment. It is worth mentioning the importance of ensuring a primary results’ trajectory that enables stabilization and further reduction of public debt to GDP ratio, which is a crucial measure to reinforce the positive perception regarding the economic environment, to improve the confidence of agents and to contribute to the anchoring of inflation expectations. 
27. The Copom observes that the main inflation scenario considers the materialization of the recently assumed trajectories regarding fiscal variables. Relative to the structural fiscal result and depending on the economic cycle, the Committee considers that the balance of the public sector stands in expansionary zone. The Committee hightlights that the lack of definitions and the significant changes in the trajectory of primary surpluses’ generation, as well as in its composition, impact the hypotheses considered for inflation projections. Concerning inflation control, the Committee highlights that the literature and the best international practices recommend a consistent and sustainable fiscal policy framework, in order to allow the monetary policy actions to be fully transmitted to prices. 
28. The Copom highlights that the main scenario considers credit moderation, which had already been observed and tends to persist. Regarding this issue, it is important to highlight the fact that, after years of strong expansion, consumer credit has moderated, so that, over the last quarters, there were, on the one hand, exposure reduction by banks and, on the other hand, deleveraging of the households. In the aggregate, therefore, it can be inferred that the risks in the consumer credit segment have been mitigated. In another dimension, as illustrated by actions that have been implemented, the Committee considers as opportune to continue to reinforce the initiatives with the aim of moderating concessions of subsidies through credit operations. 
29. In the factors’ market, as anticipated by previous Minutes, the Copom observes that the idleness margin in the labor market is high, with data confirming the acceleration of the expected distension in this market. However, a significant risk still prevails related, particularly, to the possibility of concession of high nominal wages’ increases, with negative impacts over inflation. In spite of the recent occurrence of real wage changes consistent with the estimates for the labor productivity gains, the Committee evaluates that the wages dynamics remains originating cost inflationary pressures. 
30. The Copom considers that the still elevated twelve-month inflation level reflects the relative prices adjustment processes occurred in 2015, as well as the recovery process of the fiscal revenues observed at the federal and state levels, at the start of the year, in addition to the temporary supply shocks in the food segment, and which cause inflation to show resistence. Although the Committee recognizes that these processes have direct impact on inflation, it reaffirms its view that the monetary policy can, should and is containing the second-order effects stemming from them. 
31. The Committee recognizes the progress in disinflation policy, especially the containment of second-order effects stemming from relative price adjustments. However, it considers that the high level of inflation in twelve months and the distance between inflation expectations and the inflation targeting regime objectives do not allow monetary policy easing. 
33. The Copom reaffirms that the aggregate demand will continue to be moderate in the relevant horizon for the monetary policy. On the one hand, household consumption tends to be influenced by factors such as employment, income and credit, on the other hand, the concession of public services and the expansion of agricultural income, among other factors, tend to benefit investments. On its turn, net exports show better results, either by increasing exports, benefited by the depreciation of the BRL, or by the ongoing import substitution process. For the Committee, the combined effects of these elements, the developments in the fiscal and quasi fiscal framework and in the assets market, and, in this year, the dynamics of regulated prices, the distension process in the labor market and an output gap more disinflationary than the initially anticipated are important factors in the context in which future monetary policy decisions will be taken, aiming to ensure the convergence of inflation to the 4.5% target established by the CMN, in 2017. 