1. In June, inflation continued its downward trend, with wholesale and consumer price indices posting negative changes. The fall of wholesale prices for the second consecutive month reflected the effects of an increase in the supply of cereals and grains due to the new harvest season, and th  effect of the recent exchange rate appreciation on agricultural and industrial prices. Regarding consumer prices, the slowdown in inflation was also general, but the negative change observed in June was the result of the sharp decline in fuel and food prices.
2. The IPCA fell 0.15% in June, after an increase of 0.61% in the previous month, accumulating a 6.64% increase in 2003. The IGP-DI fell 0.70% in June, compared to a decrease of 0.67% in May, while the IPA-DI fell 1.16% in June from 1.68% in May. In the twelve months ending in June, the IPCA increased 16.57%, the first reduction in the 12-month accumulated change since August 2002. The 12-month changes of the IGP-DI and IPA-DI decreased for the third consecutive month in June, reaching 26.94% and 33.55%, respectively, compared to 30.05% and 38.50%, observed in May.
3. Regarding the IPCA, the negative change observed in June was determined by the fall in gasoline, alcohol-based auto fuel and food prices, which together contributed –0.45 p.p. to the overall result. The price of rice increased 6.2% in June, compared to an increase of 14.46% in May, as a result of the continuing effects of decreased production in the South of Brazil. Even with the substantial fall in growth between the two months, the increase in the price of rice registered the highest positive individual contribution to the increase in the IPCA in June (0.06 p.p.).
4. Inflation of market prices in the IPCA slowed again in June, while the inflation of regulated prices reversed their recent positive changes. Market price inflation slowed to 0.20% in June from 0.53% in May, while the level of regulated prices actually decreased 1.02% in June, compared to an increase of 0.81% in May.
5. The deceleration of market price inflation was due mainly to the 0.34% decline in food prices, even with upward pressures from increases in the prices of rice, milk and dairy products. The decrease in food prices was influenced by the increased supply of sugar cane, beans and corn. This increased supply of corn affected meat prices, mainly chicken, which decreased 2.3%. Regarding sugar, the decrease of international prices prevailed. Conditions for perishable food production remained favorable in June, supporting the average fall of 8.0% in these prices, after a decrease of 6.3% in May. Excluding food items, market prices increased 0.47% in June compared to 0.48% in May, reflecting the seasonal acceleration of increases in clothes prices, which counteracted the general deceleration of market price inflation.
6. Regulated prices fell 1.02% in June compared to a rise of 0.81% in May, contributing -0.29 p.p. to the overall result of the IPCA in June. Gasoline prices at gas stations decreased 4.9%, as a result of the continuing effects of the 6.5% reduction at the refinery level since April 30. The decline of alcohol-based fuel prices intensified in June, reaching 12.1%, due to the increased supply of sugar cane, the decrease of international sugar prices and the recent exchange rate appreciation.
7. Wholesale prices posted a negative change for the second consecutive month, both in agricultural and industrial prices. The agricultural IPA’s 1.04% decline was smaller than the 3.08% drop in May as a consequence of upward pressures from meat and meat-products. The increased supply of grains, vegetables and fruits continued to contribute to the decrease of the prices of these products. The industrial IPA fell 1.21%, after a decrease of 1.15% in May. The result was influenced by further decreases in the prices of chemical products, particularly fuel, lubricants and fertilizers, and negative changes in important segments such as food products, plastic, metallurgical and electronic materials, paper and corrugated paper, fabric and clothing. On the other hand, increases in the prices of industrial mineral products, beverages, furnishings, wood, rubber and non-metallic minerals should be highlighted.
8. Core IPCA inflation calculated by excluding household food items and regulated prices, decreased to 0.52% in June from 0.56% in May. The accumulated change in the last twelve months reached 10.97%.
9. Core IPCA inflation calculated under the trimmed-mean method reached 0.9% in June, compared to 1.0% in May. In the last twelve months, the accumulated change increased to 12.5%, continuing to reflect the influence of higher inflation in the second half of 2002.
10. Core IPC-BR inflation, calculated under the symmetric trimmed-mean method increased 0.74% in June, compared to 1.05% in May, accumulating an increase of 12.51% in the twelve months through June. In this case core inflation is also influenced by the higher inflation in the second half of 2002.
11. In July, the effect of the exchange rate depreciation on wholesale prices will decline, with agricultural and industrial prices likely to register less deflation. Agricultural prices may also reflect increasing pressures in meat, milk and dairy products prices due to seasonal effects. Only the prices of the products in the sugarcane derivatives industry may continue to decline. The decrease of 0.42% in agricultural prices registered in the second preview of the July IGP-M, compared to 1.5% in the second preview of June, already reflects these effects. 
12. Consumer price indices will be impacted by the increase in regulated prices, particularly the readjustment of electricity tariffs in São Paulo and telephone tariffs around the country. The negative contribution of fuel and food prices will decrease in July. Regarding clothing, the recently seen pressures are expected to reverse due to early winter sales. 
13. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations assumes the following hypotheses:
a. The projections for the readjustment of gasoline prices in the remainder of 2003 decreased by 5.2 p.p. since the last meeting. The new projection for this year’s readjustment is +0.1%. The projections for bottled cooking gas for 2003 remained almost stable, with a 0.1 p.p. reduction between the June and July meetings. These forecasts include price readjustments that have occurred up to the current date,
b. The projections for the readjustment of electricity tariffs fell slightly, to 21% from 23%, already including the readjustments that have occurred up to the current date. Regarding telephone tariffs, the new forecast presumes a 25.5% readjustment in 2003,
c. Regulated prices, which had a 28.7% weight in the June IPCA, are forecast to rise 13.1% in 2003, a 1.0 p.p. decrease compared to last month’s projection, despite the significant increase in the forecast for the readjustment of telephone tariffs. This drop in the projection continues to be a consequence of the exchange rate appreciation observed in recent months. Gasoline, alcohol-based auto fuel and household electricity tariffs were the major prices responsible for the decrease in the projection for the increase in overall regulated prices in 2003,
d. For 2003, it is assumed that the readjustment of regulated prices will follow the endogenous determination model of regulated prices, which considers the change in the exchange rate, free price inflation and the change in the IGP price index, as well as seasonal factors. Under this new methodology, the projection for the readjustment of regulated prices in 2004 is 9.6%,
e. The projection for the 6-month spread over the Selic rate, following the specification of the VAR model using the Selic and the swap rate on the eve of the Copom meeting, was –340 b.p. for the third quarter of 2003, gradually rising to 40 b.p. at the end of 2004. 
14. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the primary surplus target of 4.25% of GDP for this year and the following two years will be accomplished. The other related assumptions established in the June meeting were maintained.
15. Considering the baseline scenario hypotheses, including the maintenance of the Selic interest rate at 26.0% p.a. and the exchange rate at the level prevailing on the eve of the Copom meeting (R$2.85), inflation is projected above the adjusted target of 8.5% for 2003 and below the target of 5.5% for 2004.
16. Monthly inflation has continued the declines observed in recent months. This positive outcome is mainly the result of monetary initiatives that impeded the propagation of the shocks that occurred at the end of 2002, and to consistency in fiscal policy. These factors, together with a more favorable international environment, led to an exchange rate appreciation in the period and to a convergence of inflation expectations to the path of the targets. The significant drop of inflation illustrated by the results of the IPCA in June and the IPCA-15 in July provides evidence of the effectiveness of monetary policy in reducing inflation persistence, and preventing its continuation at high levels. Additionally, these results strengthen the perception that the convergence of inflation to the targets is occurring more rapidly than had been observed up to April.
17. The 0.15% decline of the IPCA in June was a result of a 1.02% drop in regulated prices and a 0.20% increase in free prices. These numbers benefited from several conjunctural and seasonal factors, such as declines in gasoline, alcohol-based auto fuel and food prices. Though such factors should be taken under consideration, market prices show a clear deceleration of inflation. Excluding food, market price inflation remained between 0.45% and 0.50% in May and June compared to 0.81% in April.
18. Several measures of core inflation dropped between May and June, as described above. A similar trend was seen in other price indices, such as the IPC-Fipe, which showed a drop in inflation for the fifth consecutive month.
19. The outright fall of the IPCA in June was accompanied by a lower proportion of individual prices in the IPCA showing positive readjustments: 60.4% compared to 66.0% in May. The June rate is significantly smaller than the 85.9% registered in January, the highest value in the series since 1995, and is lower than the average of 63.7% observed since January of 1999.
20. The behavior of the exchange rate has contributed to the drop of inflation. Between June and July, the exchange rate remained almost stable, with the US dollar floating between R$2.80 and R$2.90. Country risk measured by the Embi+ increased slightly since the eve of the June Copom meeting, to 726 b.p. from 696 b.p.. The rollover rates for private securities and external loans continue to increase. In June, the IPA, which is strongly related to the exchange rate, posted deflation. This was the second consecutive month of deflation in the case of the industrial subcomponent of the IPA, and the third consecutive month in the case of the agricultural subcomponent of the IPA.
21. However, the effects on tradable goods prices of the exchange rate appreciation that has occurred since the beginning of 2003 have so far been less intense than expected. As the behavior of wholesale prices have a partial and delayed effect on consumer prices, there is still room for the exchange rate appreciation that has occurred since the beginning of 2003 to affect the IPCA, even though the exchange rate has remained stable around current levels for the past month. As a result, although tradable goods prices do not yet embody all of the exchange rate appreciation that has occurred, it is reasonable to expect that they will adjust further in the absence of additional upward pressures.
22. The deceleration in economic activity has continued, with a decline in retail sales, an increase in inventories, and zero growth in industrial production. The unemployment rate measured by the IBGE increased in May to 12.8%. Because it is based upon a new methodology, the May unemployment rate is not directly comparable to the value observed in the same month of past years. It should be highlighted that some of the indicators available in the Copom meeting still reflect the lagged impacts on economic activity of the adverse macroeconomic environment prevailing in the final months of 2002 and in the first months of 2003. The Copom remains aware of the evolution of the level of activity and believes that the recent deceleration will be reversed in the second half of 2003, as a result of the effects of the recent significant improvement in the macroeconomic fundamentals.
23. Both the Central Bank’s inflation forecasts and market inflation expectations have been converging to the inflation targets. The Central Bank’s inflation forecasts for 2003 point to inflation above the adjusted target of 8.5%. Nonetheless, as observed at the June Copom meeting, since the second quarter of this year inflation has registered results compatible with the projections presented in the Open Letter sent by the Central Bank’s Governor to the Ministry of Finance on January 21, 2003.
24. The median of market expectations for inflation surveyed by Gerin has also been converging to the inflation targets. In the weeks before the July Copom meetings, expected inflation for the next 12- months dropped to 7.0% from 7.7%, a value that is consistent with the 12-month ahead path of the inflation targets from July. In the same period the median of market expectation for 2004 inflation dropped to 6.5% from 7.4%.
25. The Central Bank’s inflation forecasts, considering the baseline scenario hypotheses, including a Selic rate at 26.0% p.a. and the exchange rate at the level of R$2.85, point to an inflation rate accumulated in the next twelve months below the trajectory of the inflation targets. For 2004, the forecast is below the new target of 5.5% fixed by the CMN at the end of June. However, during periods of disinflation, nominal interest rates are expected to fall gradually, and therefore forecasts for relatively long time horizons based on constant nominal interest rates tend to overestimate the downward trajectory of inflation.
26. The Copom remains concerned about the risks to setting inflation on a path consistent with the trajectory of the targets, especially with respect to the degree of inflation persistence and to the speed of disinflation. The Copom has compared its inflation forecasts from the model currently in use with an alternative model that adopts a higher degree of inflation persistence. The inflation forecasts for the second quarter of 2003 adopting the current model were more precise, which provides more evidence that the degree of inflation persistence is converging towards its historical mean.
27. If the recent trend of inflation persists, real interest rates should converge to lower levels in the future. The gradual convergence of interest rates towards the new equilibrium levels in the medium term will preserve the recent success in fighting inflation and will be compatible with a sustained recovery in the level of economic activity.
28. Considering the forecasts for inflation in the next twelve months and 2004, the recent rates for the IPCA and the evidence that inflation persistence may be returning to its historical levels, the Copom believes that additional loosening of monetary policy will not compromise the recent success in reducing inflation.