1. Inflation rates in July reflected the lack of price pressures and confirmed the convergence to the inflation targets. Wholesale prices registered a negative change for the third consecutive month, although they fell by less than in the previous month. Consumer price indices increased slightly, as a result of readjustments in specific regulated prices.
2. The IPCA increased 0.20% in July, after a decrease of 0.15% in the previous month, accumulating increases of 6.85% and 15.43% in 2003 and in 12 months, respectively. The IGP-DI fell 0.20% in July, compared to a decrease of 0.70% in June, reflecting an increase of the IPC-BR (to 0.34% in July from –0.16% in June) and a decrease of the IPA-DI (to –0.59% from –1.16%). The 12-month changes of the IGP-DI and IPA-DI decreased for the fourth consecutive month in July, reaching 24.14% and 29.12% respectively.
3. IPCA market price inflation slowed again in July (to -0.01% from 0.20% in June), as a consequence of a larger decline of food prices. Regulated prices rose 0.73% in July, compared to a decrease of 1.02% in the previous month, contributing 0.21 p.p. to the overall result of the IPCA in July. The rise of 9% in national fixed telephone tariffs was the main reason for the increase of regulated prices. In addition, there was an average increase of 2.1% in energy tariffs. Gasoline and alcohol-based auto fuel prices fell again in July, -2.7% and -10.3% respectively, together contributing -0.23 p.p. to the overall result of the IPCA.
4. Wholesale prices posted a negative change for the third consecutive month, as a consequence of a decrease in both agricultural and industrial prices. The agricultural IPA fell 0.42% in July, after a decrease of 1.04% in June. The industrial IPA decreased 0.66% in July, compared to a decrease of 1.21% in June.
5. Core IPCA inflation calculated by excluding household food items and regulated prices, fell to 0.37% in July from 0.52% in June. The accumulated change in the last twelve months reached 10.83%, decreasing from the previous month for the first time this year.
6. Core IPCA inflation calculated under the trimmed-mean method (smoothed) reached 0.65% in July, compared to 0.87% in June. In the last twelve months, the accumulated change increased to 12.67%, continuing to reflect the influence of higher inflation in the second half of 2002. Inflation calculated without the smoothing procedure for pre-selected items resulted in rates of 0.40% and 11.71% in the month and in 12 months, respectively.
7. Core IPC-BR inflation calculated under the symmetric trimmed-mean method reached 0.53% in July, accumulating an increase of 12.65% in the twelve months ending in July.
8. Despite some specific pressures, the trend indicates stable prices in August. The trajectory of food prices should be less favorable mainly due to the increase of meat prices and to the deceleration of the fall in the prices of beans, perishable foods and soybean products. Among regulated prices, gasoline stopped contributing to the fall of inflation. In addition, the increase of energy tariffs in Belém (August 7) and São Paulo (July 4) will contribute to an increase in inflation. On the other hand, the effects of the increase in telephone prices, considering the current judicial stance, will end in August.
9. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations assumes the following hypotheses:
a. The projections for the readjustment of gasoline prices in the remainder of 2003 were revised. The new projection for this year’s readjustment stands at 4.9%, a significant increase if compared with 0.1% in July. This increase results from the exchange rate depreciation in the last month and mainly the rise of international oil prices. The projections for bottled cooking gas for the remainder of the year was stable. However, considering the rise in prices that occurred in July, the projections for bottled cooking gas prices for the full year rose to 5.8% from 2.3%,
b. The projections for the readjustment of electricity tariffs increased to 22.3% from 21.0%. The projections for the readjustment of telephone tariffs in 2003 were maintained at 25.5% with a new distribution over the year. Due to the judicial injunction against the readjustment of these tariffs according to the IGP-DI annual variation, this item registered a change that was lower than expected in July. The Copom considered the hypothesis that differences between the authorized by Anatel and the actual readjustment will be compensated in the remainder of the year,
c. Regulated prices, which had a 28.5% weight in the July IPCA, are forecasted to rise 14.0% in 2003, a 0.9 p.p. increase compared to last month’s projection. The increase in this projection is a consequence of the rise in oil derivatives prices (gasoline and bottled cooking gas) and household electricity tariffs,
d. For 2004, it is assumed that the readjustment of regulated prices will follow the endogenous determination model of regulated prices. Under this methodology, which considers the change in the exchange rate, free price inflation and the change in the IGPDI, as well as seasonal factors, the projection for the readjustment of regulated prices in 2004 was reduced by 0.9 p.p., to 8.7%,
e. The projection for the 6-month spread over the Selic rate, following the specification of the VAR model using the Selic and the swap rate on the eve of the Copom meeting, was –260 b.p. for the third quarter of 2003, gradually rising to 50 b.p. at the end of 2004. 10. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the primary surplus target of 4.25% of the GDP for this year and the following two years will be accomplished. The other related assumptions established in the July meeting were maintained.
11. Considering the baseline scenario hypotheses, including the maintenance of the Selic interest rate at 24.5% p.a. and the exchange rate at the level prevailing on the eve of the Copom meeting (R$3.00), inflation is projected above the adjusted target of 8.5% for 2003 and below the target of 5.5% for 2004. 
12. The behavior of inflation in July proved over again that monetary policy has been able to establish the convergence of the inflation rate to the path of the inflation targets. This assessment is based not only on the 0.20% increase in the IPCA in July, but also on the persistent and quick fall of inflation expectations, on the exchange rate stability and on the favorable evolution of other price indices, both consumer and wholesale. These factors provide evidence of the effectiveness of monetary policy – within a framework of consistent macroeconomic policies - in reducing inflation persistence, and preventing the inflation rate from stabilizing at higher levels after it peaked in the final months of 2002.
13. The rise of the IPCA from –0.15% in June to 0.20% in July is the result only of higher inflation in regulated prices, which rose to 0.73% from –1.02%. It should be highlighted that this increase was expected in the face of the readjustment of household electricity and telephone tariffs in this period. Inflation in tradable goods has been falling in the last two months, from 0.95% in May to 0.38% in June and –0.06% in July. This is a consequence of the exchange rate appreciation that occurred in the second quarter of the year. Inflation in non-tradable goods was almost zero for the third consecutive month. As a result, market prices inflation, a weighted sum of tradable and nontradable price changes, has been falling since March and was zero in July. Another decline in the number of items in the IPCA that suffered price increases also occurred, from 60.4% in June to 57.2% in July, the lowest share since May 2001.
14. The change in inflation dynamics is also captured by the behavior of core inflation and wholesale price indices. Core IPCA inflation calculated under the trimmed-mean method with smoothing and excluding regulated prices fell for the fourth consecutive month. 
15. Deflation in wholesale prices occurred for the third consecutive month, although the degree of deflation lessened in July. This behavior was observed for both industrial and agricultural prices. Considering that the positive impact of the agricultural harvest on prices is almost exhausted and also that the exchange rate remained roughly stable in July, the deflation observed in July can be attributed to the lagged effects of the exchange rate appreciation since March in an environment of decelerating economic activity. Despite the small exchange rate depreciation that occurred since the July Copom meeting, there is still room for the deflation of wholesale prices to contribute to lower levels of inflation to consumers, especially in the case of tradable goods, even in the context of a recovery of economic activity.
16. The exchange rate depreciated since the July Copom meeting, from a range between R$2.80 and R$2.90 to R$3.00 per US$ in the weeks before the August meeting. Country risk measured by the Embi+ rose from 730 b.p. to 900 b.p. in the beginning of August due to a rapid increase in longterm US interest rates and higher volatility in the domestic scenario in the last weeks of July. The Embi+ then decreased to 750 b.p. on the eve of the August Copom meeting. The Brazilian external accounts continued to post positive results, with records in the trade balance due to export growth, a surplus in the current account, and a quick recovery of rollover rates for external loans. Moreover, the negative short-term impact of the rise in long-term US interest rates will likely be compensated by the positive effects of the faster growth of the US economy on the global economy in the medium-run. 
17. Due to the exchange rate depreciation observed since the July Copom meeting, the current level of the exchange rate is equivalent to the average value during the second quarter of the year. Additionally, according to BCB simulations, the exchange rate appreciation in the first semester of 2003 has not yet been totally passed through to prices. Thus, the recent exchange rate depreciation is not expected to produce inflationary pressure.
18. The level of economic activity continued to fall at the end of the second quarter. In June, industrial production fell by more than expected. Retail sales continued to decrease and industrial inventories were above desired levels. Installed capacity utilization stabilized around 80% and the unemployment rate remains high, around 13%. This does not mean that economic activity is in recession, since the deceleration is not generalized, and activity in some important sectors, such as agriculture and exports, has been growing strongly.
19. The prospects for economic activity in the second half of the year are better than the outcome in the first half. Economic activity, particularly in the last quarter of 2003, may benefit from the effects of the cuts in the Over-Selic rate at the last three Copom meetings and the recent reduction of reserve requirements on demand deposits. The increase of real incomes, which may result from the decrease in inflation, will be an important factor supporting economic activity. Due to the behavior of the economy in the second quarter, growth during the second half will take place from a lower base than was expected at the July Copom meeting, and with a large margin of idle capacity. Thus, the recovery can be balanced, with the resumption of consumption and investment without significant inflationary pressures.
20. The BCB’s inflation forecasts, assuming the maintenance of the Over-Selic rate at 24.5% p.a. and the exchange rate at R$3.00, point to inflation above the adjusted target of 8.5% for 2003. There was no significant change in inflation forecast for 2003, as the lower–than-expected inflation results in July were offset by the higher forecast for regulated prices through the end of the year. Thus, the inflation forecast remains compatible with that presented in the Open Letter sent by the BCB Governor to the Finance Minister on January 1, 2003.
21. The BCB’s inflation forecasts for the next twelve months and for 2004, still assuming that the exchange rate and the Over-Selic rate remain constant, point to values below the target trend. The impact of the decrease in interest rates and the exchange rate depreciation observed in the last month was compensated by the lower forecast for the readjustment of regulated prices in the next year and by the significant decline of inflation expectations.
22. The median of market inflation expectations has been behaving favorably. For 2003, market expectations decreased to 9.7% from 10.6%. Regarding expectations for inflation in the next twelve months, the decrease was to 6.4% from 7.0% between the weeks before the July and August Copom meetings, continuing the declining trend that had already been observed in June and July. With this reduction, inflation expectations for the next twelve months are below 6.75%, the value that corresponds to the path for the inflation targets in July 2004. Finally, for 2004, market expectations decreased to 6.2% from 6.5%, close to the target of 5.5% for the year. 
23. As in previous months, in an effort to evaluate the degree of inflation persistence, the Copom compared its inflation forecasts from the model currently in use with an alternative model that adopts a higher degree of inflation persistence. The inflation forecasts for July adopting the current model were more precise, which again provides evidence that the degree of inflation persistence is converging towards its historical mean.
24. Monetary policy should be guided to make inflation converge to the target path. In the medium run, there is a real interest rate yield curve that is consistent with the target. In periods of transition, such as the current stage, it is up to the monetary authority to establish a short-term interest rate trend that permits the gradual convergence of the real interest rate yield curve to the that the one prevailing in the medium-run, guaranteeing that inflation converges to the target with the lowest volatility in output. With the evidence that inflation is falling to the targeted path, it is natural that the spreads between real interest rates and their medium-run equilibrium values diminishes.
25. Considering the recent evolution of inflation and the perspectives for its future trend, as well as the significant improvement of the fiscal scenario in the medium and long run as a consequence of the reforms being discussed in Congress, the Copom believes that easing monetary policy is appropriate, promoting an adjustment in the Over-Selic rate to bring it to a trend consistent with the gradual convergence of the real interest rate yield curve to its equilibrium position.