1. The main inflation indicators remained stable in November, compared to October, presenting low rates and low dispersion. This behavior confirms the favorable recent inflationary outlook, in which the main disturbing factors are seasonal and temporary. 
2. The IPCA increased 0.34% in November compared to 0.29% in the previous month, totaling 8.74% in the year and 11.02% in the last twelve months. The IGP-DI changed 0.48%, after an increase of 0.44% in October, influenced by the IPA-DI and the IPC-Br increases (0.46% and 0.33%, respectively). The IGP-DI and IPA-DI changes accumulated in twelve months to November decreased for the eighth consecutive month, to 9.92% and 8.79%, respectively. 
3. Regarding the IPCA, lotteries and urban bus fares in Rio de Janeiro were the main individual contributors to the November result (contributing 0.06 p.p. and 0.05 p.p., respectively). Clothing, under seasonal factors influence, presented an average increase of 0.99% in November, compared to 0.92% in October, contributing 0.05 p.p. to the IPCA result. Food prices increased 0.25%, compared to 0.46% in the previous month, mainly due to the deceleration of meat and chicken prices increase. 
4. Still regarding the IPCA in November, market prices changed 0.33% and regulated prices increased 0.36%, contributing 0.24 p.p. and 0.10 p.p. to the overall result, respectively. In the first group, the increases were concentrated in clothing, meat and chicken prices. Regarding regulated prices, besides lottery and urban bus fares in Rio de Janeiro, electricity tariffs were increased in Rio de Janeiro, Porto Alegre and Goiânia. On the other hand, gasoline, fuel-alcohol and bottled gas prices decreased during the month. 
5. The IPA-DI reached 0.46% compared to 0.50% in October, with divergent behaviors for agricultural and industrial prices. The Agricultural-IPA decelerated 0.26%, after an increase of 1.30% in the previous month, due to lower increase in soybean prices and drop in prices of milk, eggs and pork. On the contrary, rice prices increased. 
6. On the other hand, wholesale industrial prices presented a slight acceleration, increasing 0.54% in November compared to 0.18% in October. This acceleration was caused by chemical prices, especially oil and lubricating products, paint products, and fertilizers and pesticides. Also important were the increases in prices of cotton fabrics, reflecting the increase in the raw material, and of steel. 
7. The IPCA core inflation, excluding food and regulated prices, remained stable in November for the fifth consecutive month, at 0.38%. In the last 12 months, the core accumulates a 9.28% change. 
8. Core IPCA inflation calculated under the smoothed trimmed-mean method reached 0.56% in November compared to 0.77% in October. The accumulated variation in 12 months reached 11.82%, still affected by the inflation upsurge at the end of 2002. The non-smoothed trimmed-mean core stood at 0.31% in November and 9.36% in 12 months. 
9. Core IPC-Br inflation calculated under the symmetric trimmed-mean method by FGV reached 0.36% in November, accumulating an increase of 10.69% in the last twelve months. 
10. In December, both consumer and wholesale inflation are likely to register changes close to November. At the wholesale level, some pressure is expected in prices of vegetables, fruit, rice and corn, while prices of milk, eggs, soybeans and sugar cane are expected to fall. For the IPCA, the December result will be affected by rises in regulated prices (lotteries and urban bus fares in Belém and Fortaleza), as well as a slight acceleration in food prices. 
11. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations assumes the following hypotheses: 
a. Gasoline and bottled cooking gas prices are projected to accumulate increases of 0.9% and 3.7%, in 2003, respectively. For 2004, the changes in gasoline and bottled cooking gas prices are projected to reach 9.5% and 3.5%, respectively. The readjustment of gasoline prices encompasses an increase in the CIDE rate to partially compensate the federal government for sharing this tax with states and municipalities, as part of the recently enacted tax reform, 
b. The projection for the readjustment of household electricity tariffs in 2003 decreased 0.1 p.p., reaching 21.6%. For 2004, the readjustment is expected to be 7.2%. Concerning telephone tariffs, there was no change in the projection for 2003 since the last Copom meeting. For 2004, Copom estimates an increase of 6.6%, assuming that the judicial injunction which limited the readjustment of the tariffs authorized for 2003 will not be reverted, 
c. For the inflation of regulated prices in 2004, which weighted 28.9% in the November IPCA, the BCB projection decreased 0.7 p.p., reaching 7.8%, 
d. The projection for the readjustment of regulated prices for 2005 was based on the model of endogenous determination that was used until the September Copom meeting to estimate 2004 readjustments. This model, which considers seasonal components, the exchange rate behavior, market prices inflation rate and the IGP-DI variation, forecasts a 5.5% change for regulated prices in 2005, 
e. The projection for the 6-month spread over the Selic rate, following the specification of the Vector Autoregressive model using the Selic and swap rates on the eve of the Copom meeting was –70 b.p. for the fourth quarter of 2003, gradually rising to 20 b.p. in the last quarter of 2004 and 50 b.p. at the end of 2005. 
12. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the primary surplus target of 4.25% of the GDP for this year and the following two years will be accomplished. The other related assumptions established in the November meeting were maintained. 
13. Considering the baseline scenario hypotheses, including the maintenance of the Selic interest rate at 17.5% p.a. and the exchange rate at the level prevailing on the eve of the Copom meeting (R$2.94), inflation is projected above the adjusted target of 8.5% for 2003 and below the target of 5.5% for 2004. 
14. November inflation results confirmed the convergence of inflation to the target path. Regarding the IPCA, the 0.34% inflation in November was just 0.05 p.p. higher than October. When the IPCA change is decomposed into three groups – regulated, tradable and non-tradable prices – low price dispersion is noticed in November, with changes for the three groups between 0.25% and 0.44%. Perishable food prices grew 0.5% due to weather factors, after two consecutive months of falling prices. This behavior is likely to repeat in the first quarter of 2004, without causing a generalized disturbance on market prices. Other consumer inflation indicators, such as the IPC-Fipe and the IPC-Br, also showed inflation around 0.3% in November. 
15. Core inflation measures also posted positive results, falling or remaining stable in moderate levels (from 0.3% to 0.4%) for the different methodologies – exclusion, smoothed trimmed mean and non-smoothed trimmed mean. The IPC-Br core also fell in November, reaching 0.36%. 
16. Considering accumulated inflation for the year until November and market inflation expectations for December, the IPCA change in 2003 may be slightly above 9%. This rate is close to the 8.5% adjusted inflation target and almost 3.5 p.p. lower than the 2002 inflation rate. This result confirms the monetary policy effectiveness in curbing the extremely negative outlook in the beginning of the year. 
17. Recent indicators provide additional evidence of the rebound in economic activity already outlined in previous Copom’s meetings. Industrial output maintains the upward trend. Seasonally adjusted results for October showed growth or stability for all categories of use, although total industrial output fell 0.5%. This apparently contradictory result is explained by the seasonal adjustment methodology. The 3-month moving average for October is 1.8% higher than the September average. Leading indicators suggest the continuation of the upward trend for November. The recovery has spread among different industrial sectors, and the diffusion index reached 79% (64% in September) in a scale where 100% indicates that all the 61 sub-sectors surveyed by the IBGE posted positive growth. 
18. Consumption recovery is becoming clearer, despite its slower growth compared to production growth. The IBGE retail survey shows an unambiguous marginal improvement, although the accumulated performance for the year is still being affected by the results in the first half of this year. Year-on-year accumulated sales are still negative, but its fall diminished to 5.0% in October from 5.2% in September. Furniture and appliances remain leading the retail segment, with positive performance for the second consecutive month (a 5.2% growth in comparison to October 2002). The assessment of the 3-month moving average of seasonally adjusted primary data of IBGE proves the gradual recovery of retail sales. Another evidence of consumption recovery is the increase in consultations to the Credit Protection System and Usecheque in October. Due to the improvement in credit conditions of the economy, durable goods are leading the recovery, which is expected to strengthen in view of the improvement in consumers’ confidence, the gradual recovery in real earnings and low delinquency indicators. 
19. Investment data surprised positively. Capital goods domestic absorption increased 22% in October compared to September. Considering this result, investment rate, although still at a historically low level, confirmed the rebound trend already outlined in the third quarter GDP data. Investment increase reinforces the Copom’s expectation of a well-balanced growth recovery, based on expansion in credit to consumers, increase in real earnings and expansion of productive capacity in the tradable goods sector, which idle capacity presents low levels due to exports growth. 
20. As in previous months, the external accounts performance remained positive. In the fourth quarter, daily exports grew 20% on average, compared to the same period of 2002, while imports increased 17% in the same period. The trade surplus may be close to US$ 24 billion in 2003, far above previous estimates. The positive performance should repeat in 2004, when a US$ 19 billion surplus is expected, despite the significant imports growth caused by the recovery of economic activity. The current account is expected to post a US$ 4 billion surplus this year, the first positive result since 1992. The country-risk has continued to fall since the last Copom meeting to close to 480 basis points, together with the drop in several international risk aversion indicators. The exchange rate remained roughly stable between the last Copom meetings. 
21. There was no alteration in the recovery external scenario assessed in the November meeting. The Copom shares the concerns of several international observers that a monetary tightening cycle may initiate in mid-2004 in the United States. However, considering the recent behavior of US inflation and productivity growth, it is not likely that an increase in US interest rates aborts the global recovery process and drastically reduces international liquidity. The Copom also fears that the widespread improvement of emerging markets risk perception may be reverted in case some countries suffer more intensively the effects of the worsening of the international scenario in 2004. Even so, Brazil is in better conditions than in previous years to face these situations, due to the significant improvement of its fundamentals and the government decision to extend the IMF agreement. 
22. The median of market inflation expectations for 2004 stabilized at 6%. As the mode and the median of market inflation expectations are equal, marginal variations only affect the mean, which fell below 6% for the first time in the year between the November and December Copom’s meetings. On the eve of the December meeting, the mean stood at 5.88%. The median of market expectations for GDP growth in 2004 increased to 3.5% from 3.4%. 
23. Inflation projections by the BCB for 2003 are above the adjusted target of 8.5%, assuming the maintenance of the Over-Selic rate at 17.5% p.a. and of the exchange rate at R$2.94. Considering the same hypotheses for the exchange rate and for the Over-Selic rate, inflation projections are below the target for 2004 and 2005. In comparison to November estimates, there was a slight reduction in inflation projected for 2004, due to the reduction to 7.8% from 8.5% in regulated prices. 
24. The positive trend of inflation, the well-balanced recovery of economic activity and the favorable external scenario led the Copom’s members to endorse the monetary easing. The Copom unanimously decided to reduce the target for the Over-Selic rate to 16.5% p.a., without bias. 
25. However, it is important to emphasize once again that there are important lags between monetary decisions and its effects on economic activity and inflation. Since the beginning of the ease cycle, the Over-Selic rate has been reduced by 10 p.p. Part of the effects of this cut has not materialized on the activity level yet. Nor has the recent recovery of activity shown its effects on inflation. 
26. The Copom evaluates that the reduction in the real yield curve, which accompanied the reduction of the Over-Selic rate, will sustain the recovery in economic activity in the coming months. The continuous convergence of inflation to the targets and the resulting consolidation of a long-lasting scenario of macroeconomic stability will contribute to a progressive reduction of risk perception. This environment will naturally create the conditions required for a lower real interest rate in the coming years. 
27. Considering the uncertainties in the transmission mechanism of monetary policy, the Copom understands that the sustainability of the disinflation gains in recent months and of the economic recovery process requires a careful assessment in future monetary decisions. In particular, monetary policy should not endorse the inflationary impact of the readjustment of prices in those sectors that now lead the recovery process. This is the only way to ensure the continuous convergence of inflation to the target path, in an environment of sustained economic growth. 