1. The inflation recorded deceleration in March, confirming the expectations for the period. The Broad National Consumer Price Index (IPCA) registered 0.47% in March, compared to 0.61% in February, accumulating 1.85% in the first quarter of 2004. The IGP-DI reached 0.93% in March, compared to 1.08% registered in the previous month, totaling 2.84% in the first quarter of the year. This performance was mainly a consequence of the Wholesale Price Index (IPA-DI) behavior, with an increase of 1.09% in the month and of 3.30% in the first quarter of the year. The 12-month accumulated changes of the IPCA, IGP-DI and IPA-DI remained in a downward trend in March, standing at 5.89%, 4.94% and 3.59%, respectively. 
2. Regarding the IPCA, the reduction of the monthly change was mainly due to the smaller impact of the school fees readjustment in the month. This readjustment was the main factor of pressure in February. In addition, fuel-alcohol prices remained on a declining trend (-12.87%), reflecting a favorable harvest of sugar cane. 
3. The main individual contribution to the March IPCA inflation came from new cars prices, 0.07 p.p., due to a 2.33% increase registered as a consequence of rise in production costs, as well as of the end of the special tax on industrialized products regime. Amongst the items with greater price increase, one highlights cigarettes, with a total contribution of 0.06 p.p., and sewage and water supply, with price readjustment in four cities, with 0.05 p.p. Food and beverages registered a 0.43% increase, compared to the 0.15% increase in February, mainly driven by the prices of soy oil and eggs. 
4. Regarding regulated prices, there has recently been above-than-expected price increases in certain items. As an example, the price readjustments for sewage and water supply in Brasília and Belo Horizonte reached 20% and 21%, respectively, much higher figures than any 12-month accumulated inflation index. In addition to this item, recent announcements of price readjustments of electricity in Minas Gerais and Pernambuco are also above previously expected. These increases consider inflation-indexed costs, price increases due to investments in the distribution and a part of the 2003 readjustment that is being applied this year. 
5. Still regarding the IPCA evolution in March, market prices changed 0.69%, accounting for 0.49 p.p. of the monthly variation of the index, while the 0.07% fall in the regulated prices contributed with –0.02 p.p. In the first group, the rise of tradable goods prices contributed 0.27 p.p. for the IPCA monthly change, while non-tradable goods contributed with 0.22 p.p. Regarding regulated prices, the negative change was due to the reduction of fuel prices, which prevailed over the increases of water and sewage tariffs and bottled gas prices. 
6. The IPA-DI decreased 1.09% in March, in comparison to 1.42% in February. This result followed the industrial prices trajectory, as the Agricultural IPA reverted its trend in March, after reductions of 0.76% an 0.34% in February and January, respectively, mainly due to price increases of 10.98%, 12.17% and 7.01% of soy, eggs and fresh food items, respectively. However, the prices of rice, cattle and sugar cane remained in a downward trend. 
7. Industrial IPA rose 0.94% in March, compared to 2.29% in February, mostly influenced by prices of the following items: chemicals (decrease in alcohol prices and deceleration of price rises of both plastic and fertilizers), food products (with the effects of oil and fat losing ground), mechanics, electric material, wood and furniture, paper and cardboard, rubber, and fabric, clothing and shoes (deceleration of rises). Price increases in the metallurgy sector (iron, steel and by-products and non-ferrous metals) continued to present the highest contributions to the absolute Industrial IPA change (0.37 p.p.) in March, when the variation stood at the same level registered in the month, 4%. 
8. The core IPCA inflation calculated excluding household food items and regulated prices was the only core measure to decrease in March, to 0.85% compared to a 1.00% rise in February, partially due to the end of school fees rises that had been pressuring the previous month results. The 12-month accumulated change reached 7.09% in March. 
9. The core IPCA inflation calculated under the smoothed trimmed-mean method rose to 0.76% in March from 0.48% in February, posting a 9.47% accumulated variation in the last 12 months. The result calculated without the smoothing procedure for pre-selected items reached 0.65% in March, accumulating 6.11% in 12 months. As occurred with the full IPCA, the 12-month accumulated core indices registered in March the lowest changes since the end of 2002, despite being above the full IPCA change. 
10. Core IPC-BR inflation, calculated under the symmetric trimmed-mean method by Fundação Getúlio Vargas (FGV), rose to 0.53% in March, compared to 0.46% in February, accumulating 7.87% in the last 12 months. 
11. In April, consumer price indices should be influenced by price rises of medicine and clothing, and, among regulated items, of water and sewage and household electricity. The magnitude and the pace of the pass-through of wholesale industrial price increases to consumer prices have been unsurprised. 
12. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to new available information. The scenario considered in the simulations assumes the following hypotheses: 
a. The projections for the evolution of gasoline prices in 2004 were maintained at 9.5%. The projections for bottled cooking gas were revised to 6.9% in the year, 3.1 p.p. below March projections, 
b. The projection for household electricity tariffs increased to 8.5% from 6.9% since the last Copom meeting. Regarding telephone tariffs, the Copom maintained its projections practically unchanged, from 6.8% in the previous meeting to 6.7%, 
c. Regarding all regulated prices, with a total weight of 28.8% in the March IPCA, a 7.4% rise is projected, 0.1 p.p. above the projection made in the previous meeting, 
d. The projection for the readjustment of all regulated prices for 2005 was maintained at 6.0%. This figure results from a model of endogenous determination, which takes into account seasonal components, the exchange rate behavior, market prices inflation and the IGP change, 
e. The projection for the 6-month spread over the Selic rate, following the specification of a Vector Autoregressive model using the Selic and swap rates on the eve of the Copom meeting, starts from a -81 b.p. in the second quarter of 2004 and reaches 55 b.p. in fourth quarter of 2005. 
13. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the primary surplus target of 4.25% of the GDP for 2004 and the following two years will be achieved. The related assumptions considered in the previous meeting were maintained. 
14. Considering the hypothesis of a lower persistence of inflation, considered by the Copom since March, and the benchmark scenario hypotheses, including the maintenance of the Over-Selic rate at 16.25% p.a. and of the exchange rate close to the level prevailing on the eve of the Copom meeting (R$2.88), IPCA inflation was projected slightly below the 5.5% target for 2004 and below the 4.5% target for 2005. According to the market scenario, which takes into account the consensus exchange rate and Selic rate as surveyed by the BCB´s Investor Relations Group (Gerin) on the eve of the Copom meeting, inflation is projected above the central targets for both 2004 and 2005. 
15. The inflation registered by the IPCA decreased by the second consecutive month, to a level close to the ceiling of market expectations for the month. The pressure has been higher among market prices with a change of 0.68% and 0.69% in tradable and non-tradable items, respectively. Regulated prices fell (-0.07%) and contributed significantly to the March inflation reduction. So far, non-tradable items have contributed more intensely to inflation in 2004, with a 3.33% variation in the first quarter of 2004, while tradable and regulated items changed 1.29% and 1.03%, respectively. As a consequence of this increase to 3.33% (1Q04) from 1.19% (4Q03) in the non-tradable inflation rate, the contribution of this group to the IPCA increased 0.66 p.p. in first quarter of this year compared to the last quarter of 2003, explaining almost all inflation acceleration in 2004. Inflation measured by other national consumer indices was close to the ones observed in the IPCA. However, general price indices have shown relatively higher rates. The IGP-DI increased 0.93% in March, after increasing 0.80% and 1.08% in January and February, respectively. 
16. In contrast with the deceleration of the headline index, the various core IPCA measures calculated under the trimmed-mean method increased in March, reversing the February fall. Core inflation calculated with smoothing of pre-selected items increased to 0.76%, from 0.48%, and the core inflation calculated without the smoothing procedure rose to 0.65, from 0.28%. Core inflation calculated by excluding household food items and regulated prices decreased to 0.85% in March, from 1.00% in February. The ratio of items of the IPCA with positive variation in the month increased to 66.0%, from 60.4%, but kept within the usual range. It should be noted that increases in the measures of core inflation and inflation dispersion could be justified as a consequence of recent increases in wholesale prices, even if the pass-through remains moderate, as expected, and compatible with a favorable inflation scenario. 
17. Economic activity continues its recovery trend, despite the 1.8% fall in industrial production in February, compared to January. This fall, anticipated in the March minutes, is fully consistent with usual economic recovery cycles and is related to the sharp rebound of the second half of 2003. The recovery was fast and intense, which became clear in the new industrial output series released in April by the IBGE. According to this new series, in the second half of 2003 the industrial production was 4.2% higher than in the first half of 2003, while the old series recorded a 2.3% growth for the same period. The highest industrial production level in Brazilian history was reached in November, with a seasonally adjusted growth of 9.6%, compared to the trough observed in June. However, according to the new series, industrial production has been declining since November, in spite of signals showing a continuous economic recovery. The new series also shows a higher growth in the semi and non-durable goods sectors. While the old series indicated December 2003 as the month with the lowest output in 2003, according to the new series, there was a peak in this month, with a seasonally adjusted growth of 9.2% compared to the trough in July. 
18. Several leading and coincident indicators confirm the Copom’s evaluation regarding the positive activity trend. Packaging paper production sustained the upward trend initiated in September. Automobile production increased again in March. Average real earnings in the six metropolitan areas in the IBGE’s monthly employment survey increased in February for the second consecutive month. According to data from the CNI to Brasil and Fiesp to São Paulo, real earnings in the industry are currently in higher levels than the ones observed in 2002. Regarding Fiesp data, employment growth in the first quarter of 2004 was the highest since 1999, indicating that industrial production growth is already affecting job creation. Retail sales, according to IBGE data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, increased 2.1% in January compared to the previous month, reaching a level 6.1% higher than the same month of 2003. According to Fecomércio-SP data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, real sales in the greater São Paulo continue to increase, showing a 2.0% growth in February, compared to the previous month. Credit operations also sustained an upward trend. Despite the fall in consumer sentiment in March and April, retail sales have apparently not been affected. 
19. Brazilian external accounts continue to show very impressive positive results. The trade balance in March was 73.3% higher than in the same month of 2003, and reached US$6.2 billion in the first quarter of the year, compared to US$ 3.8 billion in the same period of 2003. Despite economic growth this year, the BCB projects a trade balance surplus similar to 2003. The current account remains positive, accumulating a US$ 1.7 billion surplus in the first quarter of 2004. The country-risk measured by the Brazil Embi+ stabilized again, after increasing in the January-February period. From the eve of the Copom meeting in March to April, the Brazil Embi+ fell to a level close to 540 b.p., from 560 b.p. The exchange rate remained almost stable, around R$2.90/US$1.00.
20. In general, the external environment remains favorable. World growth perspectives help the Brazilian trade balance. Furthermore, the anticipation of an interest rate hike in the U.S. after the disclosure of sales and consumer inflation data in March, should not change significantly costs and availability of external funding to Brazil in 2004, despite eventual turbulence in the short run. The scenario of a rise in the fed funds is already incorporated in asset prices. In addition, the remarkable adjustment in the Brazilian current account and the reduction of the FX-linked public debt contribute significantly to mitigate not only the effects of a deterioration in international liquidity to the financing of the Balance of Payments, but also its effects on the foreign exchange market. 
21. Although inflation in the first quarter was higher than expected, market expectations remained relatively stable. The small increase in expected inflation is mainly due to the incorporation of the January-March actual rates. At the end of December, according to the Gerin, inflation expectations for the first quarter of 2004 stood at 1.51%, while actual inflation reached 1.85%. The effect on expectations to 2004 was marginal, as expectations remained satisfactorily anchored. Inflation expectations for 2005 remained steady at 5.00%. Inflation expectations for the next 12 months rose slightly to 5.48%, from 5.41%, since the last Copom meeting. 
22. Copom considered BCB’s inflation projections under the hypothesis of a low degree of persistence of the first quarter inflation, following the seasonal inflation pattern observed in the last years. According to the benchmark scenario, which supposes the maintenance of the Selic rate at 16.25% p.a. and the exchange rate at R$2.88 during the forecasting horizon, inflation is slightly below the 5.5% target for 2004 and below the 4.5% target for 2005. According to the market scenario, which incorporates consensus exchange rate and Selic rate on the eve of the Copom meeting, the BCB’s projections are above the targets for 2004 and for 2005. Accumulated inflation for 2004 rose in the two scenarios because inflation was higher-than-expected in March. The market scenario projects higher inflation rates than the benchmarked scenario because it assumes a declining trend for the interest rate, as well as a small increase of the exchange rate. 
23. As the projected inflation for April in the two scenarios was very close to the one expected by the Top 5 forecasting institutions (institutions with more accurate forecasts in the short run), incorporating these expectations into projection scenarios, as recently done by Copom, does not change projected inflations for 2004 and 2005 significantly. 
24. Considering these inflation scenarios, the Committee decided, unanimously, to reduce the target for the Over-Selic rate to 16% p.a., without bias. The Committee understood that this reduction is coherent with the last meeting diagnosis, which considers more likely the benign scenario of low inflation persistence in the next months, and the low pass-through from wholesale prices to retail prices. 
25. The Copom evaluated that the cautious monetary stance has been essential to increase the likelihood of inflation converging to the target. Accordingly, inflation indicators must continue consistent with the low inflation-persistence hypothesis that has been considered. 
26. The monetary stance is different during crises periods, such as the one observed at the end of 2002 and the beginning of 2003, or during times of greater macroeconomic stability, as the one recently established. Therefore, when the crisis is reverted, as the interest rate is still considerably high, interest rate cuts are larger. However, a different interest rate dynamics should take place during times of greater macroeconomic stability, when inflation convergence to the targeted path, along with sustained economic recovery, should be monitored more carefully. 
27. The Committee stresses that it is pointless to infer that the more moderate cut of interest rate corresponds to a negative evaluation about the future behavior of inflation, or that it should cause pessimism about the future path of economic activity. On the contrary, a natural result of the progressive normalization of the economic environment is precisely the fall in the average interest rate cuts. In addition to allowing further monetary easing, this procedure enables a smooth transition to a scenario of price stability with economic growth, with smaller market interest rates volatility in the medium run. 