1. In June, the Broad National Consumer Price Index (IPCA) rose 0.71%, up from 0.51% in May, accumulating a 3.48% change in the first half of the year, and a 6.06% variation in twelve months. The monthly IPCA acceleration in June was mainly due to the increase in the prices of fuel and food. 
2. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) rose 1.29% in June, compared to 1.46% in May, accumulating a 6.90% change in the first half of 2004. In June, the deceleration of the IGP-DI was a consequence of a lower increase in wholesale prices and in construction industry costs, while consumer-price inflation registered a slight increase. The Wholesale Price Index (IPA-DI) rose by 1.57% in the month and 8.38% in the first half of the year. Regarding 12-month rates, the IGP-DI and IPA-DI reached 10.13% and 11.76% in June, respectively. 
3. The main individual contributor to the IPCA inflation was gasoline (0.14 p.p.), reflecting the pass-through to consumers of the gasoline price increase by distributors on June 15 (10.8%), and the 11.35% surge in alcohol-based fuel prices. As a consequence, transportation prices increased 1.58% in June, contributing with 0.33 p.p. to the monthly IPCA change. 
4. Food prices rose 0.72% and accounted for 0.17 p.p. of the June IPCA change. Climate adversities affected the supply of some products such as onions, tomatoes and vegetables. The inter-harvest period was responsible for the increase in the prices of milk and dairy products, such as cheese, yogurt and powdered milk. 
5. Market prices increased 0.58%, compared to 0.57% in May, accounting for 0.42 p.p. of the monthly IPCA, while the increase of 1.03% in regulated prices was responsible for the remaining 0.29 p.p. The relative stability in market prices inflation was a consequence of the deceleration in non-food prices, which attenuated the impact of the acceleration in food prices. Concerning regulated prices, urban and interstate transport fares contributed to the surge, together with gasoline and alcohol-fuel prices. 
6. In June, the IPA-DI grew 1.57% (1.71% in May). This reduction was a consequence of the deceleration of agriculture wholesale inflation, which rose 0.52% in June compared to 2.71% in May. In the same period, industrial wholesale inflation increased to 1.97% from 1.32%, mainly pressured by the price readjustment of fuel and fertilizers, which caused an increase of 5.37% in chemical prices, compared to 1.72% in May. 
7. The IPCA core inflation, calculated by excluding household food items and regulated prices, registered a 0.53% variation in June (0.70% in May), accumulating 7.17% in 12 months. 
8. The IPCA core inflation, calculated under the smoothed trimmed-mean method, increased to 0.60% in June from 0.59% in May, totaling 8.16% in the last 12 months to June. Without the smoothing procedure for pre-selected items, the core IPCA recorded 0.48% in June and 5.56% in twelve months, compared to 0.43% and 5.46% rates in May. 
9. The Consumer Price Inflation - Brazil (IPC-Br) core, calculated by the Getúlio Vargas Foundation (FGV) under the symmetric trimmed-mean method, stood at 0.50% in June, compared to 0.57% in May, accumulating 6.39% in the last twelve months. 
10. In July, consumer inflation should be affected by the readjustment in regulated prices (electricity, gasoline, alcohol-fuel, fixed telephone and urban bus in Rio de Janeiro). Among market prices, food is expected to continue affecting inflation, especially meat and dairy products, still pressured by the inter-harvest period. Moreover, due to seasonal reasons, school vacation time is expected to raise entertainment prices. Regarding wholesale inflation, pressures over the prices of animals and by-products, fuels and fertilizers are expected to continue. These pressures should be partially offset by the deceleration of other industrial prices. 
11. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to new available information. The scenario considered in the simulations assumes the following hypotheses: 
a. The Copom's projection for the increase of oil prices in 2004 was maintained at 9.5%. The projection for the increase of cooking gas prices was slightly reduced to 6.8% from 6.9%, 
b. The projections for the readjustment of household electricity prices in 2004 increased to 11.6% from 11.0% in the previous Copom meeting. Regarding fixed telephone services, the Copom revised its estimate for the annual adjustment to 12.8% from 6.1%. This revision follows the Supreme Judicial Court decision to reinstate the IGP-DI index instead of the IPCA index for purposes of the annual adjustment in 2003, overturning a lower court ruling, 
c. Regarding all regulated prices, with a total weight of 28.6% in the June IPCA, a 8.3% rise is projected, 0.6 p.p. above the projection made in the previous meeting, 
d. The projection for the readjustment of all regulated prices for 2005, following the model of endogenous determination, which takes into account seasonal components, the exchange rate, market prices inflation and the IGP-DI change, was maintained at 6.0%, 
e. The projection for the 6-month spread over the Selic rate, following the specification of a Vector Autoregressive model based on the Selic and the swap rates on the eve of the Copom meeting, increases from 51 basis points in the second quarter of 2004 to 58 basis points in the fourth quarter of 2005. 
12. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the consolidated public sector primary surplus target of 4.25% of the GDP for 2004 and the following two years will be achieved. The related assumptions considered in the previous meeting were maintained. 
13. Considering the benchmark scenario hypotheses, including the maintenance of the Over-Selic interest rate at 16.0% p.a. and of the exchange rate close to the level prevailing on the eve of the Copom meeting (R$3.00), IPCA inflation was projected above the 5.5% target for 2004 and slightly above the 4.5% target for 2005. According to the market scenario, which takes into consideration the consensus Over-Selic rate and exchange rate as surveyed by the BCB’s Investor Relations Group - Gerin on the eve of the Copom meeting, inflation is projected above the targets for both 2004 and 2005. 
14. In June, market prices inflation registered the highest rate for the month in the last several years. From February to May, market prices increased systematically above regulated prices, accumulating 2.42% against 0.86% of the regulated. In June, however, inflation was pressured not only by market prices (up 0.58%) but also by regulated prices (up 1.03%, partly due to the rise in gasoline prices), thus resulting in the 0.71% IPCA variation for the month. In the first half of the year, market prices surged 3.77%, equivalent to a 7.69% annualized rate. Other nationwide consumer-inflation indices also posted high changes in the last two months, as in the case of the IPC-DI (0.71% and 0.78% in May and June, respectively). The IPA-DI has also recorded high changes throughout this year, mainly pressured by industrial prices, up 9.96% in the January to June period. 
15. IPCA trimmed-mean core measures have stood relatively stable in the past few months, albeit at figures incompatible with the medium-term inflation targets. In the first half of the year, the smoothed and non-smoothed trimmed-mean cores posted 3.79% and 2.96%, respectively, or annual figures of 7.72% and 6.00%, respectively. Core inflation excluding household food items and regulated prices stood at 4.52% in the same period (9.24% in annual terms), well above the 3.48% headline inflation. 
16. Economic activity has continued to present a vigorous growth rate, outstripping every month the growth rate projected at the end of 2003. Several leading and coincident indicators anticipate continuous growth for the near future. For instance, packaging paper shipments, which have been growing since the second half of 2003, rose 1.5% in June compared to May (data from the Corrugated Paperboard Association - ABPO, seasonally adjusted by the BCB). 
17. In May, industrial production posted a historical high, overcoming the previous peak of November 2003. Industrial production grew 2.2% month-on-month, seasonally adjusted, and 7.8% compared to May 2003, the eighth consecutive positive year-on-year rate. In the January-May period, industrial output increased 6.5% compared to the same period of last year. Real industrial sales increased 3.0% in May compared to April, reaching the highest figure ever recorded for the series, which began to be released in December 1991 (data from the National Industry Confederation - CNI, seasonally adjusted by the BCB). 
18. Retail sales have also kept its growth trend initiated in the second half of 2003. Similarly to the industrial output, sales have also overcome historical records. After reaching the highest figure for the index in April, sales grew 0.7% month-on-month in May, seasonally adjusted, a 10.0% increase compared to the same month of the previous year. Sales expansion comprises almost all retail sectors, not only the ones more credit-sensitive but also the ones that respond to the evolution of real earnings. In July, consumer confidence measured by the Federação do Comércio do Estado de São Paulo (Fecomercio-SP) increased 4.9% compared to June. 
19. The economic activity rebound has caused an increase in the manufacturing industry level of capacity utilization, which reached record highs for the recent years. According to data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, the quarterly FGV industrial survey reported a capacity utilization of 81.9% in April (the highest rate in the last three years), while the monthly CNI survey recorded 81.8% in May (the second highest level of the series since December 1991). The marginal production growth deserves special attention, considering that it has been increasing continuously for the last months, suggesting a faster occupation of the existing idle capacity. 
20. Conversely, capital goods sector has presented the highest growth rates amongst the industrial sectors. In the year up to May, capital goods output grew 22.5% compared the same period of 2003. Capital goods absorption (domestic production plus net imports) grew 11.4% in the same period. In such an environment, which combines fast demand growth with the recovery of fixed capital investment, the estimate of the output gap, crucial to evaluate inflationary pressures, becomes more uncertain. As stressed in the June Inflation Report, there is strong evidence that the capacity utilization is heterogeneously distributed among the different productive sectors, making it important to maintain a favorable environment for fixed capital investment, mainly on those sectors with lower idle capacity, thus enabling output to increase without causing inflationary pressures. 
21. Although external demand has played a paramount role to the initial cyclical rebound, domestic demand has been increasingly important. This is not unexpected, considering the relatively small share of the external sector on the Brazilian GDP. There are two major factors behind the increase in domestic demand: credit expansion and the recovery of the labor market. According to data produced by CNI, seasonally adjusted by the BCB, employment in the manufacturing sector, after recording in February the highest level of the series since the end of 1998, still presented continuous growth in the following three months (0.3% in May, compared to April). A similar trend has also been observed for real payroll, which attained levels equivalent to those verified in the first half of 2001. In June, according to the Ministry of Labor and Employment, formal employment increased again, accumulating a growth rate of 3.9% in the first half of 2004, compared to the same period of 2003, which corresponds to the creation of 1 million jobs, the highest job creation in the first half of any year. 
22. In the June minutes, the Copom emphasized some reasons why the current economic recovery lagged its effects on the urban unemployment rate estimated by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE). Those reasons include the unemployment rate seasonal behavior, the labor force increase and the higher expansion of employment out of the largest urban areas. However, in May these factors were offset by other factors that caused the reduction in the unemployment rate, to 12.2% from 13.1% in April. 
23. The Brazilian external sector has continued to post sizeable results. The trade balance registered a US$3.8 billion surplus in June, a new historical high, accumulating a US$15.0 billion surplus in the first half of the year. Both marginal exports and imports have grown significantly. The BCB’s trade balance projection remains at a high level (US$ 26 billion in 2004), despite the economic activity rebound. As to the current account, the first half of 2004 surplus reached US$2.5 billion. 
24. The external scenario has improved since the last Copom meeting, although some tension has persisted, mainly due to new hikes in oil prices. The pressures on the exchange rate and the country risk have subdued. As a consequence, the exchange rate has appreciated to R$3.00/US$ from R$3.16/US$, with reduced volatility, and the country risk measured by the JP Morgan Chase’s Embi+ decreased to 587 b.p. from 705 b.p. On the other hand, the Brent oil price, after falling in June, increased 12.8%. Even considering a more favorable outlook in the last few weeks due to a less uncertain monetary policy in the U.S., the scenario is not completely consolidated, indicating that new episodes of volatility might occur in the future. 
25. The deterioration of market inflation expectations, initiated in May, has continued in July, especially for 2004. The median market expectations for IPCA for this year rose to 7.10% from 6.71%, and for 2005, to 5.5% from 5.44%. Inflation expectations for the next twelve months increased to 6.27% from 6.03%. 
26. Despite the recent exchange rate appreciation, the deterioration of inflation expectations, the higher-than-expected June inflation and the increase in the expected annual adjustment of fixed telephone services explain the increase in the Copom's inflation projections for 2004 and 2005. The benchmark scenario projections, based on unchanged Over-Selic and exchange rates throughout the projection horizon, point out to an inflation rate above the 5.5% target for 2004 and slightly above the 4.5% target for 2005. The market scenario, which takes into account the consensus Over-Selic and exchange rates on the eve of the Copom meeting, projects inflation rates above the ones of the benchmark scenario (i.e., above the targets for 2004 and 2005). The Committee also assessed a third hybrid scenario, considering the market exchange rate expectations and an unchanged Over-Selic rate, coming to an inflation projection that stands between the inflation outcomes estimated on the two usual scenarios. 
27. As in previous meetings, the Committee also analyzed the inflation projections for the next 12 months, corresponding to the second half of 2004 and the first half of 2005. This is a period in which inflation will be more sensitive to monetary decisions taken in the next few months, and at the same time, it presents more reliable inflation projections than the ones for the full 2005. The projected inflation for this 12-month period, both on the benchmark and market scenarios, stood slightly above the interval between the central inflation targets for 2004 and 2005. 
28. As highlighted in previous Copom’s minutes, the unstable external scenario has generated a short-term volatility that tends to broaden the uncertainty about the future behavior of inflation. On the one hand, this uncertainty has diminished in the last weeks. On the other hand, several other factors were responsible for the deterioration of the Copom’s inflation projections since the last meeting, despite the exchange rate appreciation in the period. Those factors include the increase of the private-sector inflation expectations, the upward review of fixed telephone tariffs and the acceleration of the economic activity pace. 
29. Regarding economic activity, although fixed capital investment has been recovering, the level of capacity utilization has also increased, reaching historical highs. The fast increase in aggregate demand and in fixed capital investment have generated higher uncertainty about the capacity to expand the supply of goods and services without triggering inflationary pressures. Even considering that monetary policy must be oriented to accommodate the primary effects of supply shocks as those recently observed, it is important to avoid the secondary effects of inflation increases, containing the upward revision of inflation expectations. In addition, it is also essential to carefully evaluate the current and future supply and demand conditions of the economy. 
30. The Committee’s members believe that the maintenance of the current Over-Selic rate for a long period should consolidate a favorable inflation scenario, with the convergence of market inflation expectations and the actual inflation rate to the inflation targets. However, the monetary authority restates that a more active policy stance will be adopted if the projected inflation deviates from the targets, due to an eventual deterioration of the factors that were responsible for the recent increase in inflation projections for 2004 and 2005. 
31. Even with a deteriorated inflationary environment, and the respective change in the required monetary policy stance, there are no reasons to review economic growth expectations. Indeed, by fighting the second-order effects of the shocks recently observed, the monetary policy is aimed at preserving the medium-term sustainable growth, promoting the balance between the aggregate demand expansion and the broadening of the productive capacity of the economy. 