1. Consumer price inflation decelerated in January, but remained at a relatively high level, given the target set by the National Monetary Council. Reduced pressures from regulated prices were an important driver of the deceleration, while market prices remained virtually unchanged versus the previous month – except those inflation indices that capture seasonal adjustments in education prices in January. Regarding wholesale prices, the deceleration in industrial price increases was accompanied by a decline in agricultural prices. 
2. The Broad National Consumer Price Index (IPCA) increased 0.58% in January, compared to 0.86% in December, bringing the twelve-month cumulative change to 7.41% in January, versus 7.60% in the previous month. The deceleration in regulated prices was notable in the period – a 0.51% increase (contributing 0.15 p.p. in the index) compared to 1.43% in December. The result in January was mainly due to the conclusion of fuel price readjustments, which had been important at the end of 2004.
3. Market prices in the IPCA increased 0.61% in January, compared to 0.62% in the previous month, thus contributing 0.43 p.p. to the monthly increase of the index. In this segment, perishable food prices increased 3.73% in the month, after four consecutive declines. Due to this increase, overall food prices increased 0.78% in January, despite the deceleration of animal products prices. Market prices excluding food prices increased 0.53% in January, compared to 0.61% in December, reflecting the behavior of clothing prices, which increased 0.23% compared to 1.59% in December. 
4. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) rose 0.33% in January, compared to 0.52% in December, accumulating 11.61% in twelve months. Among the IGP-DI components in January, the Consumer Price Index – Brazil (IPC-Br) increased 0.85%, compared to 0.63% in December, mainly due to food and education prices. The National Index of Civil Construction (INCC) increased 0.75%, accelerating from the 0.51% registered in December, due to increases in the prices of construction inputs and labor costs. The Wholesale Price Index (IPA-DI) declined to 0.08% from 0.48% in December, for a 13.9% cumulative increase in twelve months. 
5. The wholesale price deceleration in January, as measured by the IPA-DI, was mainly caused by agricultural prices, which declined 0.63% compared to a 0.75% increase in December. In this group, despite price increases for vegetables, fruits, beans, corn and coffee, the declines in wheat and animal products prices prevailed. Besides the decline in agricultural prices, the favorable evolution of the IPA-DI in January was also due to continued cooling in industrial prices, which increased 0.33% in January compared to 0.38% in the previous month, mainly due to the deceleration in the prices of plastic materials, processed meat and fish and fuel. In the IPA-DI measured according to the production stage, final and intermediate goods price increases slowed in January, while prices of raw materials declined. 
6. IPCA core inflation decelerated slightly in January, but remained at high levels. Excluding household food items and regulated prices, the core reached 0.56% in January, compared to 0.67% in December, for a cumulative increase of 7.85% in twelve months. The core calculated under the smoothed trimmed-means method reached 0.66%, compared to 0.67% in the previous month, and totaled 7.45% in twelve months. The same core measure, calculated without the smoothing procedure, decreased to 0.59% from 0.66% in December, for a cumulative 6.34% increase in twelve months. 
7. The IPC-Br core inflation, calculated by the Getúlio Vargas Foundation (FGV) under the symmetric trimmed-means method, reached 0.61% in January, compared to 0.48% in December, for an accumulated twelve-month increase of 5.83%. 
8. In December, the IPCA diffusion index increased to 73.6%, compared to 68% in December and November, despite lower inflation in the period. The persistence of high core inflation and the behavior of the diffusion index indicate the dissemination of price increases across the economy. 
9. The IPCA tends to come under pressure in February, due to the seasonal impact of education costs and the projected readjustments for regulated prices. Perishable food prices should continue on the upward trend begun in January, due to unfavorable weather conditions during the harvest. In wholesale prices, besides the influence of perishable food prices, prices of iron, steel and byproducts should continue to exert pressure. On the other hand, the declines in the prices of animal products tend to continue. Moreover, the exchange rate appreciation should favorably influence domestic prices, mainly commodities such as soy, corn and wheat. 
10. The inflation shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations assumed the following hypotheses: 
a) The projection for the readjustment of both gasoline and bottled gas prices for 2005 remained unchanged at 0%,b) Projections for readjustments of fixed telephone rates for 2005 increased to 8.7% from 7.7%, while projections for the readjustment of household electricity remained unchanged at 9.5% for 2005, 
c) An increase of 6.7% in all regulated prices, which represented a total weight of 29.6% in the January IPCA, is projected for 2005, as in the previous meeting, 
d) The projection for the readjustment of all regulated prices for 2006, following the model of endogenous determination, which takes into account seasonal components, the exchange rate, market price inflation, and the IGP-DI change, stands at 5.1%, 
e) The projection for the 6-month spread over the Selic rate, following the specification of a Vector Autoregressive model based on the Selic and the swap rates on the eve of the Copom meeting, declines from 70 basis points in the first quarter of 2005 to 49 basis points in the last quarter of 2006. 
11. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the consolidated public sector primary surplus target of 4.25% of GDP for 2005 and 2006 will be achieved. The related assumptions considered in the January Copom meeting were maintained. 
12. Assuming the maintenance of the Selic rate at 18.25% p.a. and the exchange rate at the level prevailing on the eve of the Copom meeting (R$/US$2.60), the IPCA inflation rate was projected above the 5.1% objective for 2005, but below the central target for 2006. Using the consensus Selic rate and exchange rate compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations Group (Gerin) on the eve of the Copom meeting, inflation was also projected above the 2005 objective and the 4.5% target for 2006. 
13. The IPCA rose 0.58% in January, breaking the acceleration trend observed since last October. The deceleration in IPCA headline inflation was mainly due to the deceleration in clothing and transportation price inflation, with the latter influenced by the absence of fuel price increases (a key driver of transportation price rises during the fourth quarter of 2004). The category of food, beverage, and housing continued to post high monthly inflation rates. Relative to December, regulated price inflation decelerated, while market prices continued to increase at a pace similar to previous months. The IPCA deceleration in January was also due to a break in the trend of high monthly increases in tradable goods prices, in contrast to non-tradable goods, which continued to increase for the fourth consecutive month. Despite the deceleration in the monthly IPCA inflation, the dissemination of price increases in recent months across the consumer basket continues to expand. 
14. IGP-DI inflation decelerated again in January, to 0.33% from 0.52% in December. The main contributor to the deceleration was again the IPA-DI, which rose 0.08%, versus 0.48% in December. According to production stage criteria, the IPA result for January was particularly influenced by the deceleration in the prices of gross raw materials, agricultural goods, final goods, food and fuel. The low changes in the IPA in recent months are, in part, due to the recent exchange rate appreciation and may affect positively the future evolution of consumer prices. Naturally, the intensity of this pass-through will depend on prospective demand conditions and price setters’ expectations regarding the future inflation path, as highlighted in previous Copom Minutes. 
15. In January, core IPCA inflation calculated by excluding household food items and regulated prices broke the acceleration trend observed in recent months. Twelve-month accumulated inflation under this measure, however, remains above IPCA headline inflation. Core IPCA inflation calculated under the non-smoothed trimmed means method also slowed, while core inflation calculated under the smoothed method remained virtually unchanged. Despite the marginal deceleration, the annualized rates of core inflation under all three criteria remain high and incompatible with the inflation target path. 
16. Industrial output increased 0.6% in December, in month-on-month seasonally adjusted terms. The increase was over a higher base, following IBGE’s upward revision of the series. The revision modified the prevailing view regarding recent industrial performance, since, contrary to what was suggested by October and November preliminary data, the fourth quarter result increased compared to the third quarter. The highlight of the December result was the 3.4% seasonally adjusted increase in semi- and non-durable consumer goods production. This performance confirms the recent shift in the composition of economic activity, as growth has increasingly been sustained by the more income- and employment-sensitive sectors. In December, on a quarterly moving average basis, industrial output continued the growth trend observed since February, although at a lower pace in recent months. In the year, industrial output increased 8.3%, the highest rate since 1986. Capital goods and consumer durables presented the highest growth rates, of 19.7% and 21.8%, respectively. Non-durable and semi-durable goods production increased at a slower pace (4.0%), suggesting that there is room for a continued improvement in the performance of these sectors. 
17. The result for December and the subsequent series revisions show that industrial output increased more than expected in recent months. For January, leading and coincident indicators signal an accommodation in industrial activity. Real industrial sales measured by the National Industry Confederation (CNI) increased less than IBGE manufacturing industry output in recent months, suggesting a shift in the pace of inventory accumulation in the sector. However, inventory indicators show that they remain at desirable levels, compatible with economic growth. One should expect temporary accommodation in the pace of industrial output growth, but still consistent with a scenario in which there is a continuation of the expansion begun in the second half of 2003. As noted in previous Copom Minutes, it is normal that, after the initial strong impulse at the outset of the economic recovery, the growth process tends to converge to rates more compatible with the pace of output capacity expansion. 
18. According to IBGE data, the unemployment rate declined to 9.6% in December from 10.6% in the previous month. This seasonal pattern is typically observed at the end of the year, and tends to reverse in the first quarter. The unemployment rate observed in December, however, is lower than the level observed in December 2003 (10.9%) and is the lowest level observed under the new IBGE methodology introduced in 2001. The number of employed workers has continually increased during the year, accumulating growth of 3% in 2004. Payrolls increased 2.3% in the year, while the real average earnings declined 0.8%. Formal employment measured by the Ministry of Labor and Employment increased with the creation of 115,972 jobs in January, or 1.539 million on a twelve-month accumulated basis. Data from the CNI indicate continued growth of manufacturing employment since December 2003. The CNI also showed that real industrial payrolls have continued to grow in December, sustaining the trend begun in March 2003. 
19. Preliminary data for retail sales suggest a strong expansion in December. According to data from the Federação do Comércio do Estado de São Paulo (Fecomercio-SP), real sales grew 5.0% in December year-on-year. Data from Fecomercio-RJ and Fecormercio-MG, seasonally adjusted by the BCB, indicate month-on-month increases of 6.9% and 1.1% in real sales in December for the metropolitan regions of Rio de Janeiro and Belo Horizonte, respectively. The Consumer Confidence Index (ICC) measured by the Fecomercio-SP remains at high levels in February. This index, associated with the increase in employment and wages, suggests that retail sales momentum will be sustained, particularly sales of semi- and non-durable goods. 
20. As repeatedly emphasized in prior Copom Minutes, and due to the significant activity expansion observed since end-2003, the performance of aggregate supply in the coming quarters remains an important concern for prospective inflation dynamics. Average installed capacity utilization, measured quarterly by the FGV and seasonally adjusted by the BCB, remains at high levels, despite the modest reduction in January, to 84.5%, versus 85.2% in October 2004. The level of capacity utilization for capital goods production increased again in January, after declining in October, while the level of capacity utilization for intermediate goods production remained practically unchanged and at high levels. In terms of composition, a decline in capacity utilization is evident among credit-sensitive sectors, while income-sensitive sectors, such as clothes and footwear, remain at high or increasing levels. CNI's installed capacity index (seasonally adjusted by the BCB) increased 0.2% p.p. in December to 83.0%, remaining at the elevated levels observed since June, in a context of ongoing industrial production expansion. In regard to fixed-capital investment, domestic absorption of capital goods increased 6.7% in 2004, with a notable 19.7% growth in capital goods production in the period. The positive trend of the business confidence index for the manufacturing sector, as well as the continuation of Brazilian sovereign risk at reduced levels, suggests a favorable environment for the continuity of fixed-capital investment growth.
21. Brazil continued to register large surpluses in the external trade accounts in the beginning of the year. Exports grew 32.5% in January on a twelve-month accumulated basis. As a result of strong domestic demand, imports grew 30.6%. The trade balance totaled US$34.3 billion, a 36% twelve-month accumulated expansion relative to the same period through January 2004. In volume terms, comparing December figures to the same month of 2003, manufactured goods exports have continued to post record growth rates, while fuels and lubricants and durable consumer goods were the main drivers of imports. The favorable trade surplus supported the US$11.8 billion current account surplus, equivalent to 1.9% of GDP, in the cumulative twelve months through January. 
22. The international capital market environment has remained favorable. After the release of the December Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) Minutes, markets registered some turbulence, leading to an increase in the Brazilian country risk. However, with market stabilization, the Brazilian country risk premium has gradually declined, recently reaching 400 basis points. As mentioned in the last Copom Minutes, abundant international liquidity and market stability remain tied to macroeconomic conditions in the industrialized countries, especially the United States, and to the Federal Reserve’s potential monetary policy response to economic developments. New information suggesting an economic scenario that would alter the Fed’s current stance could result in greater asset price volatility. This instability could be exacerbated if the major economies’ exchange rates undergo sharp adjustments due to the imbalance in these countries’ external accounts. 
23. International oil prices have moved to higher levels since the December Copom meeting. Price volatility has mirrored news regarding possible supply restrictions among exporting countries, demand conditions and available oil reserves in the main consumer countries. In the context of a highly volatile oil price scenario, international oil prices stand below domestic oil prices. However, given the oil price volatility observed in recent months, these developments do not mean that there will be sufficient room to reduce domestic oil prices during the year. The committee continues to assume there will be no change in domestic fuel prices in 2005. 
24. Since the December Copom meeting, the median of market expectations for the 2005 IPCA inflation increased slightly to 5.72% from 5.70%. As mentioned in prior Copom Minutes, inflation expectations for 2005 remain high, despite favorable events that could dampen inflationary pressures, such as the signs of deceleration in economic growth, exchange rate appreciation, the decline in important commodity prices, and the signaling of a more restrictive monetary stance in the last months. 
25. Under the benchmark scenario – which considers the maintenance of the Selic rate at 18.25% p.a. and the exchange rate at R$/US$ 2.60 during the forecast period – inflation forecasts remained virtually stable, presenting a marginal reduction compared to the January meeting inflation forecast, but still above the 5.1% inflation objective for the year. The exchange rate appreciation and the increase in the yield curve balanced the effects of higher-than-expected January inflation and anticipated increases in regulated prices during the year. The forecasts based on the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange rate and Selic rate trajectories on the eve of the Copom meeting – exceeded the benchmark scenario forecasts, but were lower than last month’s forecasts, owing to the lower-than-expected exchange rate depreciation and the expectation of a higher interest curve. For 2006, the forecasts also showed improvement at the margin, with the benchmark scenario forecast below the target established by the National Monetary Council for the year, and the market scenario forecast above the target. 
26. Since the beginning of the monetary policy adjustment process, inflation expectations and forecasts have improved, although the current headline and core inflation are still incompatible with the medium-term targets. The more restrictive monetary policy stance adopted since September 2004 will increase the likelihood that the deceleration of wholesale price inflation positively influences consumer price inflation. Moreover, there is the possibility that the positive seasonal effects of food prices will be registered earlier this year than in prior years. Combined, these factors may contribute to attainment of inflation rates in the first half of the year that bolster confidence in the convergence of 2005 inflation to the target path. 
27. This increase in the likelihood of inflation convergence to the target path is tied to the response of economic activity and inflation to the monetary policy stance. In the January Minutes, the Copom mentioned specific factors, among the uncertainties regarding macroeconomic projections, which could harm the convergence process. Of particular concern was the intensity of self-propagating forces in the economic cycle, tied mainly to income and employment dynamics, and the possibility of greater inflation persistence, given aggregate demand conditions. In the evaluation of the committee members, data released thus far, including signs of a break in the inflation acceleration registered in the fourth quarter, reduce the likelihood of realization of the risks mentioned in January. 
28. These risk factors should not be interpreted as evidence of the loss of monetary policy effectiveness as a result of recent credit and fiscal developments. Independent of the specific importance of these developments to current performance, it is important to highlight that every expansionary impulse requires an adequate monetary policy response, but does not necessarily represent the loss of effectiveness of conventional monetary instruments. Credit growth as a result of the introduction of new personal loan contracts is an important structural advance that, in addition to making a permanent contribution toward improving the efficiency of financial intermediation, should also increase monetary policy effectiveness in the medium run. In the opinion of the Copom members, there is no evidence to suggest that monetary policy will be unable to assure convergence to the inflation target path during the period required to consolidate this structural change. Furthermore, the monetary stance implemented in recent months takes into consideration the fiscal policy impact on aggregate demand and, ultimately, on inflation. It is undeniable that reductions in fiscal expenditures reinforce monetary policy’s efforts to control inflation, and that improvements in the public accounts contribute to further reductions in real interest rates in the medium run. However, again, it does not mean that the current fiscal policy stance makes conventional monetary policy instruments inefficient in the control of inflation. 
29. With a reduction in the risks of convergence of inflation to the target path, the Copom understood that the process of interest rate adjustment should be maintained at the originally projected pace. The committee members still agree that this adjustment, followed by a sufficiently long period of stable interest rates, will be sufficient to align the future path of inflation with the monetary policy objective.