1. Consumer inflation remained high in February mainly due to isolated price increases that overshadowed the deceleration of price increases in the majority of components of the indices. Seasonal adjustments to education costs were a key driver of the Broad National Consumer Price Index (IPCA) inflation. Meanwhile, despite the cooling of industrial price inflation, agricultural prices (particularly vegetables) were a key driver of ongoing wholesale price inflation. 
2. In February, the IPCA rose 0.59%, after rising 0.58% in January. The accumulated increase in the twelve months through February reached 7.39%, versus 7.41% in January. Regulated prices in the IPCA rose 0.16% (0.51% in January) and accounted for 0.05 p.p. of the monthly change in the index. Market prices rose 0.77% (0.61% in January), accounting for the remaining 0.54 p.p. of the IPCA monthly change. In addition to education, which accounted for 0.25 p.p. of the monthly change, perishable food prices rose 6.39% and accounted for 0.09 p.p. of the result. Overall food prices increased 0.49%, despite the deceleration of important products in the essential basket of consumer goods. 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) rose 0.40% in February, compared to 0.33% in January, and accumulated a 10.86% increase in twelve months. Among the IGP-DI components in February, the Consumer Price Index – Brazil (IPC-Br) rose 0.43%, after a 0.85% increase in January, when it reflected the bulk of the seasonal impact of education price adjustments. The National Index of Civil Construction (INCC) rose 0.44%, below the 0.75% increase observed in January, due to stable labor costs in the period. The Wholesale Price Index (IPA-DI) rose 0.39%, versus 0.08% in January, accumulating a twelve-month increase of 12.74%. 
4. The acceleration of IPA-DI inflation in February was due to the 1.28% increase in agricultural prices, compared to the 0.63% fall in January. Notable increases in the prices of eggs (26.3%), vegetables and fruits (13.6%), and coffee (9.1%) outweighed the fall in the prices of chicken, soy, swine, beans and bovines. Industrial prices rose only 0.08%, compared to 0.33% in January, due to a deceleration in inflation across the majority of industrial goods prices. IPA inflation for final (particularly perishable foods) and intermediate goods accelerated from January to February, while the fall in raw material prices was more intense in February (–1.10%), compared to January (–0.64%). 
5. IPCA core inflation, calculated under the trimmed means methods, decelerated in February. The smoothed core reached 0.60%, compared to 0.66% in the previous month, and totaled 7.58% in the twelve months through February. The non-smoothed core slowed to 0.43% from 0.59% in January, with an accumulated twelve-month increase of 6.50% through February. 
6. IPCA core inflation calculated by the exclusion of household food and regulated prices was affected by the increase in education prices in the month, reaching 0.93%, compared to 0.56% in January, and accumulating 7.78% in twelve months. Not considering education, the core by exclusion would have increased only 0.50% in the month. 
7. IPC-Br core inflation, calculated by the Getúlio Vargas Foundation (FGV) under the symmetric trimmed means method, decelerated to 0.36% in February from 0.61% in January, for a cumulative twelve-month increase of 5.72%. 
8. The IPCA diffusion index fell to 64.6% in February, after three consecutive months of steady increases (73.6% in January, 68.0% in December, and 67.6% in November). 
9. The inflation shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations assumed the following hypotheses: 
a) The projection for the adjustment of both gasoline and bottled gas prices for 2005 remained unchanged at 0%, 
b) Projections for adjustments of fixed telephone rates and household electricity remained unchanged for 2005, at 8.7% and 9.5%, respectively, 
c) For all regulated prices, which represented a total weight of 29.6% in the February IPCA, a 6.9% increase is projected for 2005 (0.2 p.p above the prior projection), 
d) The projection for regulated price adjustments in 2006, following the model of endogenous determination, which takes into account seasonal components, the exchange rate, market price inflation, and the change in the IGP-DI, stands at 5.1%,
e) The projection for the 6-month spread over the Selic rate, following the specification of a Vector Autoregressive model based on the Selic and the swap rates on the eve of the Copom meeting, increases from 19 basis points in the first quarter of 2005 to 46 basis points in the last quarter of 2006. 
10. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the consolidated public sector primary surplus target of 4.25% of GDP for 2005 and 2006 will be achieved. The related assumptions considered in the February Copom meeting were maintained. 
11. Assuming the maintenance of the Selic rate at 18.75% p.a. and the exchange rate at the level prevailing on the eve of the Copom meeting (R$/US$2.70), the IPCA inflation rate was projected above the 5.1% objective for 2005, but below the 4.5% central target for 2006. Using the consensus Selic rate and exchange rate projections compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations Group (Gerin) on the eve of the Copom meeting, inflation was also projected above the 2005 objective and the 2006 central target. 
12. IPCA inflation rose 0.59% in February, a pace similar to that registered in January. Seasonal factors, particularly the annual adjustment of tuition fees, prevented the IPCA deceleration. In effect, the rise in education prices (5.28%) contributed 0.25 p.p. to the February IPCA result. In addition, due to weather conditions, perishable food prices rose 6.39% and contributed to the rigidity of IPCA inflation. Prices of non-tradable goods rose 1.68%, in contrast to the behavior of tradable goods and regulated prices, which increased 0.06% and 0.16%, respectively. Even though inflation remained at a level similar to that of January, there was a reduction in the number of items registering price increases, reversing the recent trend. 
13. IGP-DI inflation accelerated slightly in February, reaching 0.40%, after two consecutive months of deceleration. The larger increase in wholesale inflation in February relative to January (0.39% compared to 0.08%) was due to strong pressure from agricultural prices, due to adverse weather conditions, and contrary to expectations for an anticipating favorable seasonal effect. Agricultural price increases may continue in the coming months, reflecting the recent increase in agricultural commodities prices in the international market. Industrial IPA continued the deceleration observed since December, rising just 0.08% in February, and accumulating a 0.79% increase in the three-month period to February. The minimal increases in the industrial IPA in recent months partially reflect the exchange rate appreciation in the period and the effects of monetary policy, and may positively affect the evolution of consumer prices. Naturally, the intensity of the pass-through will depend on prospective demand conditions and price setters’ expectations relative to the inflation trajectory. 
14. The smaller number of items subject to inflationary pressures contributed to the deceleration of trimmed-means core inflation, both with and without smoothing, reversing the trend observed through December. However, core IPCA inflation calculated by excluding household food items and regulated prices accelerated in February, due to the tuition fee increases, which had an unsurprisingly higher impact on the core than on headline IPCA. Had education costs not been considered, the core by exclusion would have decelerated. 
15. The Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE) announced that GDP grew 5.2% in 2004, the highest in the last ten years. Household consumption grew 4.3%, the highest annual rate since 1995. Gross fixed capital investment rose 10.9%, the highest rate since 1994. In the fourth quarter of 2004, household consumption rose 1.3% while gross fixed capital investment fell 3.9%, compared to the previous quarter (seasonally adjusted data). Considering the high growth rates recorded in the previous quarters for gross fixed capital formation, especially in the third quarter (6.8%), the fall registered in the last quarter may be only a temporary adjustment and reflective of the significant volatility of investment data. GDP grew 0.4% in the fourth quarter of 2004 in seasonally adjusted terms, given the strong growth in prior quarters, this accommodation was expected and is consistent with the continuation, at a more sustainable pace, of the expansion begun in the second half of 2003. As highlighted in previous Copom Minutes, it is natural that, after an initial strong impulse at the outset of the economic recovery, the growth process tends to converge to rates more compatible with the pace of output capacity expansion. 
16. The economy has continued to expand in recent months, but as could be expected, at a slower pace than that registered throughout 2004. Although industrial output fell 0.5% in January in month-on-month seasonally adjusted terms, this deceleration was not as strong as expected by analysts, and does not indicate a downward trend for the level of industrial output. In fact, production has been stable in recent months on a quarterly moving average basis, at levels above the already high levels registered in mid-2004. In the twelve-month period ending in January, industrial output continued to register a high growth rate (8.5%), compared to the preceding twelve months. Leading and coincident indicators anticipate a new increase in industrial output in February. 
17. Non- and semi-durable consumer goods production grew 3.7% in January, the third consecutive month-on-month increase, accumulating a 7.4% expansion in three months. The other categories slowed in January compared to December. As highlighted in previous Copom Minutes, this performance underscores the recent shift in the composition of economic activity, as growth has increasingly been supported by more income-sensitive sectors. On a quarterly moving average basis, semi- and non-durable consumer goods expanded at increasingly higher rates in recent months, while other categories were stable or declined slightly. 
18. The recent behavior of the labor market also confirms that an income-driven economic cycle is under way. According to IBGE, the unemployment rate increased to 10.2% in January, in line with seasonal patterns of reversion in relation to the end of the year. However, the January rate stood well below the 11.7% registered in January 2004. The number of employed workers declined in January, but payrolls increased. In the manufacturing sector, the National Industry Confederation (CNI) reported an increase in employment in January, continuing the positive trend observed since end-2003. Real industrial payrolls registered modest accommodation, nevertheless remaining 10.4% above the level registered in January last year. 
19. Retail sales grew notably in recent months. The 0.3% decline measured by IBGE and seasonally adjusted by the BCB in January is not significant, considering that it occurred after retail sales had grown 3.8% in December, on a month-on-month basis. The most income- and employment-sensitive items have shown the strongest growth. On a quarterly moving average basis, hyper-and supermarket sales continued the strong growth trend begun in mid-2004. In the last two months, fabrics, clothing and shoes also posted strong growth. The Consumer Confidence Index (ICC) measured by the Federação do Comércio do Estado de São Paulo (Fecomercio-SP) showed a small decline in March relative to February, but remained at historic highs. In addition, non-earmarked credit grew 2.5% in February relative to January. These indicators, together with employment and income indicators, suggest that retail sales should remain on a growth trend. 
20. As repeatedly emphasized in prior Copom Minutes, and due to the significant activity expansion observed since end-2003, the performance of aggregate supply in the coming quarters remains an important concern for prospective inflation dynamics. Installed capacity utilization, measured by the CNI and seasonally adjusted by the BCB, registered some accommodation in January, falling 0.3% relative to December, but still at record levels at 82.6%. 
21. With regard to external trade, a robust surplus was maintained in February, and the outlook for the year remains highly favorable. Exports and imports continued to expand at high rates in the first two months of the year, relative to the same period of 2004. In the twelve months through February, exports grew 33.9%, relative to the previous twelve months, while imports rose 33.5%, responding to the strong expansion of domestic demand. The trade balance totaled US$35.1 billion in the twelve months through February, which represents a 34.6% expansion relative to the prior twelve months. In volume terms, and comparing January with the same month of 2004, manufactured exports continued to lead growth, while capital goods were the most notable category on the import side. The trade balance supported a current account surplus of US$11.7 billion, equivalent to 1.9% of GDP, in the twelve-month period through February. 
22. International capital market conditions have deteriorated since the last Copom meeting. In the United States, heightened inflation concerns by the Federal Reserve (FED) and the comments of FED authorities regarding the adequacy of the price adjustment of long-term bonds provoked a rise in the long end of the yield curve, with repercussions for emerging market countries. Brazilian country risk increased and, following the adjustment in several other emerging market currencies, the real depreciated. As stressed in prior Copom Minutes, abundant international liquidity and market stability remain tied to macroeconomic conditions in the industrialized countries, especially the U.S., and to the FED´s potential monetary policy response to economic developments. Despite the volatility of recent weeks, the Copom continues to attribute a low probability to a significant deterioration in international financial markets driven by abrupt changes in the conduct of U.S. monetary policy. 
23. International oil prices have risen, almost continuously, since the second week of February, and recently reached new highs, above those of last October. Oil prices have been driven by news related to demand conditions and the available oil stock in the main consumer countries – particularly in light of weather conditions in the northern hemisphere – as well as possible supply restrictions among producing countries. With the increase in oil prices, international gasoline prices have returned to levels above those in the domestic market. The persistence of prices at these levels remains surrounded by a considerable degree of uncertainty, such that the Copom maintained the assumption in its benchmark scenario that domestic fuel prices will not be upwardly adjusted in 2005. However, the more unfavorable external environment now represents a bigger risk to the future inflation trajectory than it did at the February Copom meeting. Even if this recent uptick in international prices has not translated into an increase in domestic gasoline prices, it affects the prices of petroleum derivatives and market inflation expectations. 
24. Since the previous Copom meeting, the median of market expectations for 2005 IPCA inflation increased slightly to 5.77% from 5.72%. As mentioned in prior Copom Minutes, inflation expectations for 2005 remain high, despite favorable developments that could dampen inflationary pressures, such as signs of a deceleration in economic growth, the reevaluation of market expectations for the exchange rate trajectory, the decline in wholesale industrial prices, and the more restrictive monetary stance of recent months. The marginal increase in inflation expectations for the year is, however, related mainly to the higher than expected adjustment of some regulated prices, as was the case for urban bus fares, and to the less favorable international environment. Nonetheless, inflation expectations for the next twelve months and for 2006 remain stable, suggesting that the more restrictive monetary stance has prevented short-term inflationary pressures from contaminating longer-term inflation expectations. 
25. Under the benchmark scenario – which assumes the maintenance of the Selic rate at 18.75% p.a. and the exchange rate at R$/US$ 2.70 during the forecast period – projected inflation rose in comparison to the February meeting, standing above the 5.1% objective for the year. The deterioration was due to a range of factors, such as higher than expected February inflation, the updating of the output gap with fourth quarter data, the exchange rate depreciation between the February and March meetings, and the revision of estimates for regulated price changes in 2005. The forecasts based on the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange rate and Selic rate trajectories on the eve of the Copom meeting – exceeded the benchmark scenario forecast, but fell relative to the previous month, due to lower projections for exchange rate depreciation and expectations of a steeper yield curve. For 2006, the forecasts showed an improvement at the margin, with the benchmark scenario forecast below the target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN) for the year, and the market scenario forecast above the target. The improvement in projections for 2006 reflects the consolidation of the monetary tightening process begun in September, and also the fact that the factors affecting 2005 inflation forecasts are concentrated in the first quarter. 
26. The Copom also analyzed inflation forecasts for the 12-month periods ending in March, June and September of 2006. The results for these periods will be more responsive to current monetary policy decisions than those of calendar year 2005, and the available inflation projections are more reliable than those for calendar year 2006. The benchmark scenario forecast for the twelve-month period ending in March 2006 is slightly above the value interpolated from the 5.1% inflation objective for 2005 and the 4.5% target established by the CMN for 2006. The benchmark scenario forecasts for the twelve-month periods ending in June 2006 and September 2006 are below the values of the inflation target trajectory for these periods. 
27. As in the February meeting, the Copom considered that the more favorable inflation results in the beginning of the year, and the BCB and market projections for longer periods, reflect the effects of the tighter monetary policy stance initiated last September. Economic activity continues to expand, but at a slower pace and more in line with supply conditions, so as not to result in significant inflationary pressures. 
28. On the other hand, specific pressures on current inflation and the recent deterioration of the external environment (with increasing oil prices and higher uncertainty regarding U.S. monetary policy) increased the risks to inflation convergence to the target path, in comparison to the Copom’s evaluation in the February meeting. 
29. Under the inflation-targeting regime, the monetary authority’s decision-making process is oriented around the projected inflation path, analyzing alternative scenarios for the main variables that affect prices dynamics. Heightened risks for short-term inflation tend to increase the uncertainty surrounding the future path of inflation, so that both the monetary authority’s assessment of scenarios and the coordination of private sector expectations become more difficult. In such an environment, heightened uncertainty caused by risk factors that may reverse in the short term could have a more lasting affect on inflation expectations. Therefore, the monetary authority must remain vigilant so that short-term pressures do not contaminate longer time horizons. 
30. Considering the reasons stated above, the Copom unanimously decided to increase the Selic rate target to 19.25%, with no bias, and to carefully monitor the evolution of the inflation outlook until its next meeting, to then define the next steps in the monetary policy strategy implemented since September. As highlighted in the last Copom Minutes, the monetary authority should be ready to adjust the pace and magnitude of the interest rate adjustment process to the circumstances, if there is a deterioration in the risk factors monitored by the Committee.