1. IPCA monthly inflation reached 0.75% in October, 0.40 percentage points above the September result. As was the case in September, the acceleration in inflation was primarily due to the rise in regulated prices (particularly transportation) and the prices of food and beverages (up 0.27% in October, versus average deflation of 0.61% in the June-September period). With the rise in food and beverage prices, market prices rose 0.38%. Both the rise in fuel prices and the reversal of the downward trend in food prices were expected, but the magnitude of the changes surprised on the upside. The divergence between the October IPCA and the median of market expectations on the day preceding publication of the result was the largest in two years. IPCA inflation is expected to ease in November, with the dissipation of the impact from the fuel price increase. 
2. Core inflation has accelerated in recent months, after reaching record lows in August. Core inflation remains at levels below those of the beginning of the year, but above levels consistent with the inflation target path. In the last five months, core inflation by exclusion, smoothed trimmed means and non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation rose, on average, 0.33%, 0.48%, and 0.34%, respectively, versus 0.64%, 0.64%, 0.53% in the first five months of the year. Core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices rose 0.38% in October, versus 0.36% in June and 0.37% in July, when IPCA inflation was –0.02% and 0.25%, respectively. This behavior suggests that, in recent months, IPCA inflation has been dominated by the behavior of regulated and food prices. In October, twelve-month trailing core inflation continued to trend downward (as has been the case since May 2005). 
3. After five months of contraction, the General Price Index (IGP-DI) rose 0.63% in October, but remains near levels registered at the start of the year. The result was primarily due to the 0.79% increase in the Wholesale Price Index (IPA-DI), which, in turn, was driven by the 0.32% rise in consumer goods prices (particularly non-durables) and the 1.02% increase in capital goods prices. The IGP-DI rose just 0.82% in the year through October and 2.17% on a twelve-month trailing basis, while the IPA-DI fell 1.07% in the year-to-date and rose only 0.40% on a twelve-month trailing basis. 
4. The increase in wholesale prices in October was due to the reversal of the downward trend in agricultural prices and a modest acceleration in industrial prices. Industrial and agricultural price increases made a similar contribution to the overall wholesale price result, rising 0.78% and 0.80%, respectively. Twelve-month trailing wholesale agricultural price inflation was –6.64%, while wholesale industrial price inflation rose only 2.82% (the smallest increase since January 2004). Wholesale price inflation therefore remains significantly below IPCA inflation. IGP-10 data for November suggest an acceleration of wholesale agricultural price inflation and a deceleration of industrial price inflation. In general, however, there are signs of a consistent accommodation in wholesale price inflation, with potentially positive spillovers for consumer prices in the coming quarters. As emphasized in prior Copom Minutes, the intensity and continuity of this pass-through in the coming months will depend on demand conditions and price-setters’ expectations for the future inflation path. 
5. Industrial production fell a seasonally adjusted 2% in September, according to data from the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE). Despite the September downturn, industrial production rose 3.8% in 2005 and 4.4% in the twelve months through September. Industrial production has been uneven since June but, in general, has remained at elevated levels (even with the drop in September). The three-month moving average series also posted a decline in September. Leading and coincident indicators suggest a likely decline in activity in October, in both the monthly seasonally adjusted series and the three-month moving average series. 
6. The use categories of industrial production registered divergent performance in September. Capital goods production rose 1.1%, while intermediate goods production declined 0.4% and consumer goods production fell 4.5% (driven mainly by durable goods). All three categories declined on a three-month moving average basis. Similar to August, consumer durables underperformed semi- and non-durables. Non-durables production rose 5.6% in 2005, and 5.2% on a twelve-month trailing basis – a path that reflects the relatively stronger importance of income in sustaining growth. Despite the negative performance in September, consumer durable production rose 13.8% in 2005 and 14.1% in the twelve months through September, well above the average for overall industrial production. 
7. The third quarter result for industrial production, dropping a seasonally adjusted 0.7% and rising 1.5% over the third quarter of 2004, suggests a deceleration in GDP growth in the period. It bears emphasis that this performance follows a quarter of strong expansion in economic activity. In addition, industrial indicators did not evolve in line with sales, employment, and investment, suggesting the role of inventory adjustment in shaping recent industrial sector results. Therefore, industrial activity is expected to resume growth in the coming months, with positive implications for economic activity. 
8. The labor market remained firm in September, in line with the more stable macroeconomic environment and the historically elevated levels of economic activity. The unemployment rate measured by the IBGE was 9.6% in September. Compared to September 2004, unemployment was 1.3 p.p. lower and the number of employed individuals was 2.3% higher. After rising for three consecutive months, the purchasing power of workers remained stable, such that the value estimated for September was 2% above that of September 2004, and 4.7% above that of May of this year, reflecting, in part, the positive effect of lower inflation on real incomes. Manufacturing employment rose 5.2% in the year through September and 5.6% over twelve months, according to National Industry Confederation (CNI) data. Real manufacturing payrolls rose 8.8% in the year and 9.2% in the twelve months through September, underscoring that the increase in jobs is being accompanied by an improvement in the quality of industrial employment. Formal employment, measured by the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE), also continued to rise. With the creation of 118,175 jobs in October, year-to-date formal job creation exceeded 1.5 million positions. 
9. Seasonally adjusted data from the IBGE showed retail sales were stable in September. Items whose sales are more income- and employment-sensitive performed well, and counterbalanced the negative performance of items whose sales are more credit-sensitive – a reversal of the situation that had prevailed in prior months. Three-month moving average retail sales were also stable, after five months of expansion, and remained at record levels. Retail sales rose 5% in the year through September, compared to the same period of 2004. This performance largely reflects favorable labor market developments and the ongoing credit expansion. Preliminary indicators for October suggest that sales will continue to rise. The favorable outlook for retail sales in the coming months is based on labor market performance and its effects on payroll growth, the credit expansion, and the recovery in consumer confidence. 
10. Installed capacity utilization in the manufacturing industry, as measured by the CNI and seasonally adjusted by the BCB, declined in September. Recent data on production and capital goods absorption suggest that capacity utilization could be reflecting, in part, the maturation of investments realized in recent years. As emphasized in prior Copom Minutes, the inflation path remains directly related to current and prospective developments with regard to the expansion of supply to adequately meet demand conditions. With regard to investment, capital goods absorption rose 4.6% in the year through September, driven by the increase in capital goods imports (up 29.6% in volume terms in the year through September, versus the same period of 2004). While there is stronger evidence of a recovery in investment, the performance of aggregate supply in the coming quarters remains a key point of concern with regard to future inflation dynamics. 
11. Recent data confirm that external trade performance in 2005 will outpace that of last year. In October, twelve-month cumulative exports reached US$114 billion, driven primarily by the growth in manufactured exports. The twelve-month cumulative trade balance reached US$41.9 billion, with imports totaling US$72 billion. In value terms, exports rose 24.1% over the preceding twelve months, while imports rose 21.5%. Capital goods imports rose 26.3% in October compared to the same month of 2004, accumulating a 29% expansion both in 2005 and over the past twelve months. Over the course of 2005, the relative participation of capital goods imports in total imports has risen, to the detriment of raw materials and intermediate goods. The favorable performance of the trade accounts in the twelve months through October brought the current account surplus to US$13.6 billion, or 1.8% of GDP. While the contribution of external demand to the ongoing economic expansion has diminished somewhat in recent months, it remains important and above that expected at the start of the year. 
12. International financial markets remained characterized by relatively high volatility, however, there was an improvement in the scenario considered by the Copom at its October meeting. In the last week of September, Brazilian country risk fell close to the historic lows reached in 1997, retraced somewhat, and then resumed a persistent decline since mid-October, despite ongoing concerns about the United States’ inflation outlook. In the short term, liquidity conditions and financial market stability remain tied to macroeconomic conditions in the U.S., and to the Fed’s potential monetary policy response. In general, it appears that the Fed will likely continue to raise interest rates at a measured pace. In the Euro zone, after two and a half years of holding interest rates steady at a low level by historical standards, the European Central Bank has indicated that, if necessary, it can take a tightening stance. Despite this outlook, about which there is a significant degree of uncertainty, the Copom continues to attribute a low probability to a significant deterioration in international financial market conditions. 
13. International oil prices, after reaching record highs in August, fell sharply and today are at levels close to those of the beginning of the year. Despite the considerable drop, however, prices remain at elevated levels. Given the increase in fuel prices implemented in mid-September, the Copom continues to work with a domestic fuel price scenario in which there is no further change to domestic prices in 2005. Nevertheless, due to the uncertainties about international oil prices, they remain a risk factor for the future inflation path, because these prices can be transmitted to the domestic economy via their effects on oil-intensive products, as well as economic agents’ expectations. 
14. The inflation shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations utilized the following assumptions: 
a) The projection for gasoline price adjustments in 2005 was increased to 7.6% from 7.5%. The projection for bottled gas prices was increased to –0.9% from –1.2%, 
b) The projection for fixed line telephone rate adjustments in 2005 remained unchanged at 6.7%, while the projection for household electricity adjustments was increased to 7.8% from 7.6%, 
c) For all regulated prices, which represented a total weight of 30.1% in the October IPCA, the Copom increased its projection for 2005 adjustments to 8.2% from 7.8%, 
d) The projection for regulated price adjustments in 2006 was reduced to 4.9% from 5.1%. There was an increase in the number of items for which price changes were individually projected, contributing to greater precision in the 2006 projections. For the remaining items, the projection continued to follow the model of endogenous determination, which takes into account seasonal components, the exchange rate, market price inflation, and the change in the IGP, 
e) The projection for the six-month spread over the Selic rate, using a Vector Autoregressive model based on the Selic and swap rates on the eve of the Copom meeting, increases from an average of –113 basis points in the last quarter of 2005, to 28 basis points in the last quarter of 2006. 
15. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the consolidated public sector primary surplus target of 4.25% of GDP for 2005 and 2006 will be achieved. The related assumptions considered in the October meeting were maintained. 
16. Since the October Copom meeting, median IPCA inflation expectations for 2005, compiled by the Investor Relations Group at the BCB, rose from 5.24% to 5.52%. The increase is mainly due to the fact that the survey on the eve of the October meeting had underestimated October inflation (actual 0.75%, versus expectations of 0.45%). For 2006, expectations have fallen slightly, to 4.55% from 4.60%, closer to the 4.50% target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN) for the year. As mentioned in prior Copom Minutes, these developments suggest that the recent monetary policy stance has both contained short-term inflationary pressures and contributed to the consolidation of a more favorable longer-term macroeconomic scenario. 
17. The 2005 inflation forecast under the benchmark scenario – which assumes the maintenance of the Selic rate at 19% p.a. and the exchange rate at R$/US$ 2.20 during the forecast period – is above the 5.1% inflation objective for the year, due to the higher than expected October inflation result. The forecasts based on the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange rate and Selic rate trajectories on the eve of the Copom meeting – increased relative to the October Copom meeting and are above the 5.1% inflation objective. For 2006, the benchmark forecast remained below the 4.5% target established by the CMN, but increased relative to October, as the inertial effect of the uptick in October inflation and the effect of the reduction in the interest rates outweighed the impacts of exchange rate appreciation and reduced projections for regulated price inflation. The forecast under the market scenario increased (but to a lesser degree) for the same reasons, remaining above the 4.5% inflation target. 
18. The Copom also analyzed inflation forecasts for the twelve-month periods ending in March, June, and September 2006. The forecasts for these periods are more responsive to current monetary policy decisions than those for calendar year 2005, and also more reliable than those for calendar year 2006. The benchmark scenario forecasts for these periods were below the target inflation path values interpolated from the 5.1% objective for 2005 and the 4.5% target for 2006. 
19. The Copom reaffirms the view expressed in prior Minutes, that actual and expected inflation results demonstrate that the monetary tightening cycle begun in September 2004 has contained short-term inflationary pressures and consolidated a more favorable long-term macroeconomic environment. Economic activity should recover in the coming months and continue to expand at a pace consistent with supply conditions, such that it will not introduce significant inflationary pressures. In addition, despite continued volatility in international financial markets and the persistence of high oil prices, the external environment remains favorable, particularly with regard to external financing conditions for the country. Therefore, a benign inflation environment continues to evolve. As in the October meeting, the Committee emphasizes that the main challenge for monetary policy is to ensure the consolidation of these favorable developments. 
20. The Copom considers that the increase in short-term inflation is being driven largely by the domestic fuel price adjustment implemented in mid-September, as well as by the partial reversal of the favorable food price dynamics observed in recent months and envisaged in recent Copom Minutes. The effects of these factors have not been fully reflected and will therefore likely affect inflation measures to be released in the coming weeks. Since these are transitory pressures, it is expected that they will ease over time without necessarily contaminating longer time horizons. Nevertheless, while the uptick in inflation was broadly expected, the magnitude significantly exceeded expectations prevailing at the time of the September Copom meeting. The Committee will continue to closely monitor the evolution of core and headline inflation in the coming months, distinguishing between one-off and more generalized or persistent price adjustments and adapting its monetary stance to the circumstances, in order to ensure that the gains achieved thus far in reducing inflation are made permanent. 
21. The uninterrupted convergence of inflation to the target path and the resulting consolidation of a more lasting macroeconomic stability will contribute to the progressive reduction in perceived macroeconomic risk, a process already underway for several years in Brazil. The scope for a reduction in real interest rates in the future will naturally follow. The Copom considers that its cautious monetary policy stance has been critical to increasing the probability of inflation convergence to the target path. For this to materialize, however, it is important that forward-looking inflation indicators remain compatible with the more recent benign inflation outlook. In this way, the gradual easing of the monetary stance will not compromise the important achievements made in lowering inflation and preserving economic growth with job creation and rising real incomes.