1. IPCA monthly inflation stood at 0.55% in November, falling relative to October (0.75%). Although this reduction was expected, the actual IPCA change surpassed market expectations on the eve of the November Copom meeting, as had happened in the previous month. Despite the sharp acceleration of food price inflation, fuelled by perishable food prices, the IPCA reduction in November reflected mainly the deceleration of regulated prices, due to the depletion of the effects of the adjustment of oil derivatives in mid-September. For December, it is expected a lower IPCA inflation relative to November. 
2. Core inflation measures also decelerated in November, in tandem with headline inflation. Core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices, smoothed trimmed means and non-smoothed trimmed means cores rose 0.27%, 0.51% and 0.49% in November, respectively, in comparison to 0.38%, 0.58% and 0.50% in October. Therefore, core measures confirm that the recent uptick in headline inflation has been caused by food and regulated prices. Taking a longer period, underlying inflation remains below the levels observed at the beginning of the year, although trimmed means cores continue above the levels consistent with the target path. In the July-November period, core by exclusion, smoothed trimmed means and non-smoothed trimmed means averaged 0.32%, 0.48% and 0.38%, compared to 0.59%, 0.62% and 0.49% in the first half of 2005. 12-month accumulated core measures maintained the downward trend observed since May 2005. 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) rose 0.33% in November, as compared to 0.63% in October. This decline was mainly due to the deceleration of the wholesale price component (IPA-DI), which rose 0.24% in November, compared to 0.79% in October. For the year to November, the IGP-DI and IPA-DI increased 1.16% and –0.83%, respectively. On a twelve-month trailing basis, IGP-DI and IPA-DI increased 1.68% and -0.35%. 
4. The deceleration of wholesale price inflation in November was observed in both industrial prices and, to a lesser extent, agricultural prices. Twelve-month trailing agricultural IPA stood at -6.19% through November, while industrial IPA increased just 1.64% in the same period, the lowest change since January 1999. There are consistent signs of accommodation in wholesale price inflation, with potential positive spillover effects on consumer prices in the coming quarters. As emphasized in prior Copom Minutes, the continuity and strength of this pass-through depend on demand conditions and price-setters’ expectations for the future inflation path. 
5. The first estimate by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE) for the third quarter GDP posted a 1.0% increase in comparison to the same quarter of 2004, and a 1.2% reduction on a quarter-on-quarter, seasonally adjusted basis, thus interrupting the sequence of eight positive quarterly results initiated in the third quarter of 2003. Even considering a revised seasonally adjusted result in the second quarter (to 1.1% from 1.4%), third quarter GDP remained at a high level. In the year to the third quarter, GDP grew 2.6%, compared to the same period of 2004. 
6. On quarter-on-quarter seasonally adjusted terms, agriculture and industry output declined 3.4% and 1.2%, respectively, while services output remained stable. With regard to demand, gross fixed capital formation and government consumption declined 0.9% and 0.4%, respectively, while household consumption, exports and imports grew by 0.8%, 1.8% and 1.4%, respectively. These results are consistent with a 0.4% growth in aggregate demand, according to IBGE data seasonal adjustment by the BCB (versus a 2.2% growth rate in the second quarter). Comparing to the third quarter of 2004, aggregate demand grew 2.4%, producing a 3.1% expansion in the year September and a 4.0% expansion in four quarters. Despite the quarterly decline in fixed capital investment (after a strong 4.7% expansion in the second quarter), continuing household consumption and net exports growth support favorable expectations for GDP growth in the near future. Leading and coincident indicators for economic activity suggest a GDP recovery in the coming quarters. 
7. Considering seasonally adjusted data published by the IBGE, industrial output remained stable in October, relative to September. In the year to October, industrial output increased 3.4%, and 4.1% in the twelve months through October. Since June, seasonally adjusted industrial results alternate positive and negative performances but in general, industrial production remained at elevated levels by historical standards. The three-month moving average declined in October, but at a lower pace than that registered in September. Leading and coincident indicators anticipate a recovery of industrial output in November, both in monthly and three-month moving average terms. 
8. Regarding disaggregated industrial production data for October, the main use categories presented opposite behaviors, reversing trends registered in September. Capital goods production fell 3.9%, while intermediate goods production remained relatively unchanged. As for consumer goods, production grew 1.3%, boosted by a recovery of durable goods. Three-month moving averages increased for capital goods production, fell in the case of consumer goods and remained flat for intermediate goods. Differently from September, durable goods production growth outpaced that of semi and non-durable goods. Even so, semi and non-durable goods production grew 5.1% in the year to October and 5.3% over twelve months, consistent with the increasing significance of the labor market in sustaining economic growth. Despite the weaker recent performance, durable goods production expanded 12.6% through the year and 13.5% in a twelve-month trailing basis, well above the industrial sector average. 
9. The labor market sustained a positive trend, in line with the more stable macroeconomic environment and the historically high levels of economic activity. The unemployment rate measured by the IBGE stood unchanged at 9.6% in October. In comparison to October 2004, the unemployment rate declined 0.9p.p., while the number of employed individuals rose 2.1%. Average real earnings fell relative to September, although up 1.8% if compared to October 2004. Partially reflecting the positive effects of lower inflation on real wages, average real earnings were 1.7% higher in the June-October period, versus the first five months of the year. According to the National Industry Confederation (CNI), manufacturing employment rose 4.8% in the year through October and 5.2% over twelve months. On the same basis, real manufacturing payrolls increased 8.6% and 8.9%, respectively. These indicators confirm the recent trend, associating more jobs with higher wages. 
10. IBGE seasonally adjusted data for October showed stable retail sales relative to September, with a 3.7% increase relative to October 2004. As had happened in September, goods that are more sensitive to income and employment posted positive growth, counterbalancing the negative performance of goods that are more credit-sensitive. Thus, the composition of retail sales continued to adjust, comparatively to the beginning of the recovery cycle, when credit-sensitive sales led the process. Three-month moving average sales also remained stable, close to the record high. In the year through October, retail sales rose 4.8%, compared to the same period of 2004. Preliminary indicators for November suggest that sales will likely rebound. The favorable outlook for retail sales in the coming months is supported by positive labor market developments, credit expansion and the recovery in consumer confidence. 
11. Installed capacity utilization in the manufacturing industry increased in October, as measured by the CNI and seasonally adjusted by the BCB. This increase takes place in a period of maturing investment projects made in recent years. As emphasized in prior Copom Minutes, the future inflation trend remains directly linked to current and prospective developments regarding the expansion of supply, to adequately meet demand conditions. Capital goods absorption rose 4.8% in the year through October, mainly driven by the increase in capital goods imports (which rose 30.0% in volume terms in the year). Even with increasing evidence of rising investment, the performance of aggregate supply in the coming quarters remains a key concern with regard to future inflation dynamics. 
12. Recent data confirm that external trade performance in 2005 will outpace that of last year. In October, twelve-month cumulative exports reached US$116.6 billion, driven primarily by the growth in manufactured exports. The twelve-month cumulative trade balance reached US$43.9 billion, with imports totaling US$72.7 billion. In value terms, exports rose 24.0% over the preceding twelve months, while imports rose 18.9%. Capital goods imports rose 17.5% in November, as against November 2004, accumulating a 27.5% expansion in 2005 - over the course of the year, the relative participation of capital goods imports in total imports has risen, to the detriment of raw materials and intermediate goods. The favorable performance of the trade accounts in the twelve months through November brought the current account surplus to US$14.9 billion, or 2.0% of GDP. While the contribution of external demand to the ongoing economic expansion has diminished somewhat in recent months, it remains positive and above that expected at the start of the year. 
13. International financial markets improved relative to the scenario considered in the November Copom meeting, with indications that the U.S. monetary tightening cycle would be completed soon. Brazil risk premium registered the record low since 1997, reflecting consistent improved fundamentals, noticeably strong trade surpluses, together with adequate public sector primary surpluses and continuous disinflation, contributing to safeguard the domestic economy from adverse external shocks. The significant improvement in macroeconomic fundamentals enabled the anticipation to end-2005 of the repayment of the entire obligations to the IMF, amounting to SDR10.789 billion – equivalent to US$15.5 billion and originally scheduled to be repaid until 2008. Despite uncertainties in the global economy, such as concerns regarding ongoing inflation both in the U.S. and in the euro area, the Copom continues to assign a low probability to a significant deterioration in international financial markets conditions. 
14. International oil prices, after reaching record highs in August, fell sharply and converged to levels close to those of the beginning of the year. Despite the considerable drop, however, prices remain volatile and at elevated levels. Given the increase in domestic fuel prices implemented in mid-September, the Copom maintains a scenario in which there is no further change to domestic prices in 2005. Nevertheless, international oil prices remain a risk factor to future inflation, potentially affecting the prices of oil-intensive products, as well as economic agents’ inflation expectations. 
15. The inflation shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations utilized the following assumptions: 
a) The projection for gasoline price adjustments in 2005 was increased to 8.0% from 7.6%. The projection for bottled gas prices was increased to –0.3% from –0.9%, 
b) The projection for fixed line telephone rate adjustments in 2005 remained unchanged at 6.7%, while the projection for household electricity adjustments was increased to 8.0% from 7.8%, 
c) For all regulated prices, which represented a total weight of 30.4% in the November IPCA, the Copom increased its projection for 2005 adjustments to 8.8% from 8.2%, 
d) The projection for regulated price adjustments in 2006 was reduced to 4.6% from 4.9%, since all items in the group had their price changes individually projected, 
e) The projection for the six-month spread over the Selic rate, using a Vector Autoregressive model based on the Selic and swap rates on the eve of the Copom meeting, increased from an average of –90 basis points in the last quarter of 2005, to 26 basis points in the last quarter of 2006. 
16. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the consolidated public sector primary surplus target of 4.25% of GDP for 2005 and 2006 will be achieved. The related assumptions considered in the November meeting were maintained. 
17. Since the November Copom meeting, median IPCA inflation expectations for 2005, compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations Group, rose from 5.52% to 5.68%. The increase is attributable to the fact that the survey on the eve of the November meeting had underestimated November inflation (median expectation of 0.40%, versus actual inflation of 0.55%). For 2006, expectations have fallen to 4.50% from 4.55%, reaching for the first time the inflation target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN) for the year. As mentioned in prior Copom Minutes, this trend suggests that the recent monetary policy stance has both contained short-term inflationary pressures and contributed to the consolidation of a more favorable longer-term macroeconomic scenario. 
18. The 2005 inflation forecast under the benchmark scenario – which assumes the maintenance of the Selic rate at 18.5% p.a. and the exchange rate at R$/US$ 2.25 during the forecast period – increased relative to the November Copom meeting, and is above the 5.1% inflation objective for the year. The forecasts based on the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange rate and Selic rate trajectories on the eve of the Copom meeting – also increased, and are also above the 5.1% inflation objective. For 2006, the benchmark forecast remained below the 4.5% target established by the CMN, but increased relative to November, due to the more depreciated exchange rate and the lower six-month swap rate projected according to the Vector Autoregressive model using a lower Selic rate. The forecast under the market scenario decreased slightly, mainly due to the lower depreciation of the real throughout 2006 expected by market participants. However, the inflation projection under the market scenario remains above the 4.5% inflation target. 
19. The Copom reaffirms the view expressed in prior Minutes, that actual and expected inflation results demonstrate that the monetary tightening cycle begun in September 2004 has contained short-term inflationary pressures and consolidated a more favorable long-term macroeconomic environment. Economic activity should recover in the coming months and continue to expand at a pace consistent with supply conditions, such that it will not introduce significant inflationary pressures. In addition, despite continued volatility in international financial markets and the persistence of high oil prices, the external environment remains favorable, particularly with regard to external financing conditions for the country. Therefore, a benign inflation environment continues to evolve. As in the November meeting, the Committee emphasizes that the main challenge for monetary policy is to ensure the consolidation of these favorable developments. 
20. The Copom considers that the increase in short-term inflation in the October-November period is being driven largely by the domestic fuel price adjustment implemented in mid-September, as well as by the partial reversal of the favorable food price dynamics observed in recent months. Since these are transitory pressures, it is expected that they will ease over time without necessarily contaminating longer time horizons. Nevertheless, while the uptick in inflation was broadly expected in the September meeting, the magnitude significantly exceeded expectations prevailing at that time. Therefore, the Committee will continue to closely monitor the evolution of headline and core inflation in the coming months, distinguishing between one-off and more generalized or persistent price adjustments and adapting its monetary stance to the circumstances, in order to ensure that the gains achieved thus far in reducing inflation are made permanent. 
21. The uninterrupted convergence of inflation to the target path and the resulting consolidation of a long lasting macroeconomic stability will contribute to the progressive reduction in perceived macroeconomic risk, a process already underway for several years. The scope for a reduction in real interest rates in the future will naturally follow. The Copom considers that its cautious monetary policy stance has been critical to increasing the probability of inflation convergence to the target path. For this to materialize, however, it is important that forward-looking inflation indicators remain compatible with the more recent benign inflation outlook. In this way, the gradual monetary easing will not compromise the important achievements made in lowering inflation and preserving economic growth with job creation and rising real incomes. 
22. Considering the current scenario, the Copom unanimously decided to continue the monetary easing process begun in the September 2005 meeting. Two committee members voted for a 0.75 p.p. reduction in the Selic rate, which, in their understanding, would be more appropriate considering the current balance of risks between activity and inflation. To the majority of the committee members, however, a 0.5 p.p reduction was the adequate decision. This reduction would better fit the optimal speed of implementation of the easing cycle and contribute to increase the magnitude of the total adjustment. 