1. As anticipated in the last Copom Minutes, IPCA inflation subdued in December, to 0.36% from 0.55% in November, accumulating 5.69% in 2005, the third consecutive annual reduction (and the lowest annual change since the inception of the inflation targeting regime). For the second year in a row, the inflation target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN) was accomplished. The lower inflation in December was due to decelerating prices for both regulated prices (especially gasoline) and food prices (particularly perishable food). The IPCA diffusion index fell in December relative to the previous month, to 59% from 62.3%. Some acceleration is expected for the January IPCA, since there might be some price increases in urban transportation in Belo Horizonte, Brasilia, and Fortaleza, in addition to the effect of the fuel alcohol inter-harvest period. Partial data referring to January suggest that the IPCA increase shall be higher than the expected when the December Copom meeting was held. 
2. In line with headline inflation, two core inflation measures also decelerated in December: smoothed trimmed means and non-smoothed trimmed means cores rose 0.43% and 0.33%, respectively, compared to 0.51% and 0.49% in November. On the other hand, core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices rose from 0.27% to 0.30%. Despite the December deceleration, trimmed means cores rose in the quarter, relative to the previous quarter (to 0.51% from 0.44% per month for the smoothed core and to 0.44% from 0.31% for the non-smoothed one), while the core by exclusion was practically flat. Despite lower, respectively at 5.30% and 5.55%, non-smoothed trimmed means and exclusion cores ended 2005 close to the headline inflation index. However, smoothed trimmed means core rose 6.77% in the year, maintaining, however, the downward trend that characterized overall inflation in 2005. 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) rose 0.07% in December, the lowest change in three months. This decline was mainly due to the deceleration of the wholesale price component (IPA-DI), which fell 0.14%, compared to a 0.24% rise in November. For 2005, the IGP-DI and IPA-DI increased 1.22% and –0.97%, respectively. The deceleration of wholesale price inflation in December was mainly due to industrial prices, since agricultural prices remained stable relative to November. Twelve-month trailing agricultural IPA stood at -6.32% through December, while industrial IPA increased 0.88% in the period, the lowest change since end-1998. There are consistent signs of accommodation in wholesale price inflation, with potential positive spillover effects on consumer prices in the coming quarters. As emphasized in recent Copom Minutes, the continuity and strength of this pass-through will depend on demand conditions and price-setters’ expectations for the future inflation path. 
4. According to seasonally adjusted data published by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), industrial output rose 0.6% in November, relative to October, below the rate suggested by leading and coincident indicators. It is worth mentioning that two thirds of the sectors surveyed by the IBGE presented favorable performances, signaling more diffusion in the industrial activity pickup. In the year through November, industrial output increased 3.1%, compared to the same period of 2004, and 3.5% in cumulative twelve months through November. Since June, seasonally adjusted industrial results have alternated positive and negative performances but, in general, industrial production remained at elevated historical levels. The three-month moving average declined in November for the third consecutive month, still reflecting the September decrease. Leading and coincident indicators anticipate a positive performance for December, both in month-on-month and three-month moving average terms. 
5. Regarding disaggregated industrial output data for November, the main use categories presented unique behaviors, reversing trends registered in October. Capital goods production rose 2.2% after falling 4.2% in the previous month, while durable goods production fell 1.3% compared to a 2.6% increase in October. As for intermediate, semi-, and non-durable consumer goods, output increased slightly. Three-month moving averages were stable for capital and intermediate goods, and fell for durable, semi- and non-durable consumer goods. Despite the weaker recent performance, durable goods production expanded 11.2% through the year and 11.6% in a twelve-month trailing basis, well above the industrial sector average. Semi- and non-durable consumer goods production increased 4.6% through the year and 4.8% in a twelve-month trailing basis, reflecting the effects of real income growth in the period. 
6. The labor market sustained a positive trend, in line with the more stable macroeconomic environment and the historically high levels of economic activity. The unemployment rate measured by the IBGE stood unchanged at 9.6% in November. In comparison to November 2004, the unemployment rate declined 1 p.p., while the number of employed individuals rose 2%. Average real earnings rose 0.4% relative to October, up 2.1% if compared to November 2004, partially reflecting the positive effects of lower inflation on real wages. According to the National Industry Confederation (CNI), manufacturing employment rose 4.5% in the year through November and 4.7% over twelve months. On the same basis, real manufacturing payrolls increased 8.2% and 8.4%, respectively. These indicators confirm the recent trend associating more jobs with higher wages. Formal employment measured by the Ministry of Labor and Employment maintained its upward trajectory in 2005, accumulating 1.254 million new posts. Considering this result, in 2004-2005 more formal jobs were created than in the previous four years. 
7. IBGE seasonally adjusted data for November showed a 0.3% increase in retail sales relative to October and a 4.9% increase relative to November 2004. Sales that are more sensitive to income and employment posted positive growth, counterbalancing the negative performance of more credit-sensitive sales (contrary to what happened in the beginning of the recovery cycle, when credit-sensitive sales led the process). Three-month moving average sales remained stable, close to the record high. Preliminary data for December suggest further rises. The favorable outlook for retail sales in the coming months is supported by positive labor market developments, credit expansion and the recovery in consumer confidence. From the second quarter on, the expansionist effect of a higher minimum wage must also be considered. . 
8. Installed capacity utilization in the manufacturing industry increased in November, as measured by the CNI and seasonally adjusted by the BCB, after two declining months. The November upsurge took place in a period of maturing investment projects made in recent years. As emphasized in prior Copom Minutes, the future inflation trend remains directly linked to current and prospective developments regarding the expansion of supply, to adequately meet demand conditions. In this regard, capital goods absorption rose 4.6% in the year through November, mainly driven by the increase in capital goods imports, which rose 27.9% in volume in the same period. Even with increasing evidence of rising investment, the performance of aggregate supply in the coming quarters remains a key concern with regard to future inflation dynamics. 
9. Recent data confirm that external trade performance in 2005 was notably better than in 2004. Twelve-month cumulative exports reached US$118.3 billion, driven primarily by the growth in manufactured exports (up US$12.2 billion or 56% of the total exports growth). The twelve-month cumulative trade balance reached US$44.8 billion, with imports totaling US$73.5 billion. Year-over-year, exports rose 22.6%, while imports increased 17.1%. Through the year, the relative participation of capital goods imports in total imports has risen, to the detriment of raw materials and intermediate goods. The favorable performance of the trade accounts brought the current account surplus to US$14.2 billion in 2005, or 1.8% of GDP. Although the contribution of external demand to the ongoing economic expansion has diminished somewhat in recent months, it remains positive and above that expected at the start of the year. Expectations for international trade in 2006 remain positive. 
10. International financial markets improved relative to the scenario considered in the December Copom meeting, with indications that the U.S. monetary tightening cycle would be completed soon. Brazil risk premium registered new record lows since November, reflecting consistent improved fundamentals, noticeably strong trade surpluses, together with adequate consolidated public sector primary surpluses, continued disinflation, accumulation of international reserves and a better pubic debt profile, contributing to safeguard the domestic economy from adverse external shocks. In line with these results, Brazil risk for the first time reached levels below 300b.p. at the beginning of January. Despite uncertainties in the global economy, such as concerns regarding ongoing inflation both in the U.S. and in the Euro Area, the Copom continues to assign a low probability to a significant deterioration in international financial markets conditions. 
11. International oil prices, after reaching record highs in August, fell sharply until November, reversing course since December. On the eve of the January Copom meeting, oil prices remained volatile and registered the highest levels since beginning of September. Given the increase in domestic fuel prices implemented in mid-September, the Copom maintains a scenario in which there is no change to domestic prices in 2006. Nevertheless, international oil prices remain a risk factor to future inflation, potentially affecting the prices of oil-intensive products, as well as price-setters’ inflation expectations. 
12. The inflation shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations utilized the following assumptions: 
a) Gasoline and bottled gas prices will not suffer any adjustment in 2006, as considered at the December 2005 issue of the Inflation Report, 
b) Regarding fixed line telephone rate adjustments, the 2.5% projection for 2006, presented at the Inflation Report, was maintained. The projection for household electricity adjustments was also maintained in 4.2%, similar to the last Inflation Report, 
c) For all regulated prices, and considering their composition change discussed in the December Inflation Report, the Copom maintained the 4.6% adjustment projection for 2006. These items, according to the weights released by the IBGE in December, represent 33.33% of the total IPCA, 
d) The projection for regulated prices inflation in 2007, based on the endogenous determination model, remained at 6.2%, as presented in the last Inflation Report. This model considers the effects of seasonal components, of the exchange rate, of market prices inflation and of the IGP, 
e) The projection for the six-month spread over the Selic rate, using a Vector Autoregressive model based on the Selic and swap rates on the eve of the Copom meeting, increased from an average of –113 basis points in the first quarter of 2006 to 48 basis points in the last quarter of 2007. 
13. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the consolidated public sector primary surplus target of 4.25% of GDP in 2006 and 2007 will be achieved. The related assumptions considered in the previous meeting were maintained. 
14. Since the December Copom meeting, median IPCA inflation expectations for 2006, compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations Group, rose from 4.50% to 4.59%. Despite the little recent increase, market consensus seems to be in line with the 4.5% inflation target established by the CMN for the year. As mentioned again and again in prior Copom minutes, this fact suggests that the recent monetary policy stance has both contained short-term inflationary pressures and contributed to the consolidation of a more favorable longer-term macroeconomic scenario. 
15. Though below the 4.5% inflation target for the year, the 2006 inflation forecast under the benchmark scenario – which assumes the maintenance of the Selic rate at 18.0% p.a. and the exchange rate at R$/US$ 2.25 during the forecast period - increased relative to the December Copom meeting, reflecting the Selic rate reduction. The forecast based on the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange rate and Selic rate trajectories on the eve of the meeting – also increased, continuing above the target. For 2007, the benchmark forecast remained below the 4.5% inflation target, but also increased compared to December. On the other hand, the forecast under the market scenario remained above the inflation target, but decreased compared to December due to the lower exchange rate depreciation expected by market participants for the year. 
16. The Copom reaffirms the view that current and expected inflation demonstrate that the monetary stance adopted since September 2004 has contained short-term inflationary pressures and consolidated a more favorable long-term macroeconomic environment. Economic activity data suggest the progressive consolidation of an upward trend at a pace consistent with supply conditions, such that it will not introduce significant inflationary pressures. In addition, despite continued volatility in international financial markets and the persistence of high oil prices, the external environment remains favorable, particularly with regard to the external financing conditions to Brazil. Therefore, a benign inflation environment continues to evolve. As in the December meeting, the Committee emphasizes that the main challenge for monetary policy is to ensure the consolidation of these favorable developments. 
17. The inflation upsurge in the beginning of 2006, captured by different price indices, has been occurring with a higher intensity than originally anticipated. The recent increase is partially due to specific seasonal factors, which may impact the inflation in the first two months of the year, easing over time without, necessarily, contaminating longer time horizons. Therefore, the Copom will continue to closely monitor the evolution of headline and core inflation in the coming months, distinguishing between one-off and more generalized or persistent price adjustments, and adapting its monetary stance to the circumstances. 
18. The uninterrupted convergence of inflation to the target path and the resulting consolidation of a long lasting macroeconomic stability will contribute to the progressive reduction in perceived macroeconomic risk, a process already underway for several years. The scope for a reduction in real interest rates in the future will naturally follow. The Copom considers that its cautionary monetary policy stance has been critical to increasing the probability of inflation convergence to the target path. For this to materialize, however, it is important that forward-looking inflation indicators remain consistent with the recent benign inflation outlook. In this way, the gradual monetary easing will not compromise the important achievements made in reducing inflation and preserving economic growth with job creation and rising real incomes. 
19. Considering the current scenario, the Copom unanimously decided to continue the monetary easing process and reduce the Selic rate target to 17.25% p.a., without bias. Considering the uncertainties regarding the monetary transmission mechanisms and the risks associated to the scenarios established in different occasions, the Committee considers that it will be necessary to closely follow the evolution of the inflation outlook until the next meeting, at which time it will define the next steps in its monetary policy strategy. 