1. After decelerating for three consecutive months, IPCA inflation reached 0.19% in July. This result was slightly above market expectations on the eve of the disclosure of the index, but well below expectations at the end of June. In the year through July, IPCA inflation totaled 1.73%, roughly the half of the result observed in the same period of last year (3.42%). Twelve-month trailing inflation reduced to 3.97% in July down from 5.70% in January, the lowest level for the series since June 1999, when the inflation target regime was implemented. The inflation increase in July was mainly driven by the increase in both market prices, such as household workers costs and perishable food prices and in regulated prices, such as bus fares. A benign inflation scenario continues to evolve in line with the targets path, with favorable prospects for inflation in the coming years. 
2. The acceleration of headline inflation in July was reflected in all IPCA core inflation measures. Core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices increased to 0.14% in July, up from deflation in the previous two months. Smoothed trimmed means core remained stable relative to June, reflecting the implicit inertial component. On the other hand, non-smoothed trimmed means core increased 0.20% in July, up from 0.07% in June. The three core measures continue to be in line with the targets path. Moreover, on a twelve-month trailing basis, the core inflation by exclusion (3.85%) and the non-smoothed core inflation (4.04%) stood below the center of the target, similarly to the headline result. On the other hand, the smoothed core inflation has converged more slowly to the target, reaching 5.54% in the last twelve months ended in July, down from 5.71% in the last twelve months ended in June. 
3. In contrast with consumer price inflation, the General Price Index (IGP-DI) decelerated to 0.17% in July, up from 0.67% in June, for a 1.45% increase in the year through July, compared to 1.11% in the same period of last year. In the twelve months through July, the IGP-DI increased 1.56%, compared to 0.98% in the twelve months through June. The IGP-DI fall in July was mainly driven by accommodation in wholesale price inflation and in construction costs. After presenting deflation in the three-month period ended in April, the IPA-DI increased to 0.46% in May and 1.06% in June, reducing to 0.17% in July. The most important drivers of the July result were the fall in agricultural prices (to 0.45% in July down from 1.66% in June) and in industrial prices (to 0.08% from 0.88%, in the same period). Even after rising 2% in the June-July period, the agricultural IPA accumulated a 6% decrease in the twelve months through July. On the other hand, the industrial IPA increased 3.2% in the twelve months through July, up from 2.8% in June. Wholesale price inflation may continue to positively influence consumer price inflation in the coming quarters, despite the elevated prices of some important international commodities. As emphasized in recent Copom Minutes, the continuity and strength of this pass-through will depend on demand conditions and price-setters’ expectations for the future inflation path. 
4. Industrial output recorded -1.7% in June, on a month-on-month seasonally adjusted basis, down from 1.6% in May, according to data from the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE). On a three-month moving average basis, industrial output slightly decreased in June, virtually unchanged relative to the record high registered in May. Industrial production fell by 0.6% in June, compared to the same month last year, after a 4.8% increase in May, according to the same comparison basis. In the first half of the year, industrial output expanded by 2.6%, compared to the same period last year, while twelve-month industrial production reached 2%, down from 2.6% in April and May. It bears emphasizing that the industrial output result in June demands cautious interpretation due to the influence of one-off factors. In fact, leading and coincident indicators suggest industrial output expansion in July, in both month-on-month seasonally adjusted terms and on a three-month moving average basis. Despite weaker-than-expected June results, this contraction should not interrupt the gradual industrial output process expected in previous Copom's Minutes, particularly in light of the negative events in June, of the release of the first leading results for July and of the several incentive factors, such as the monetary easing implemented since September 2005. 
5. Disaggregated industrial data in June shows that intermediate goods and capital goods production decreased by 0.5% and 2%, respectively, while durable consumer goods production grew 0.2%, compared to the same month last year. On a month-on-month seasonally adjusted basis, intermediate goods output decreased almost 2% in June, after expanding at a vigorous pace in May. In the year through June, the main drivers of industrial growth have been durable consumer goods production (7.5%) and capital goods production (5%). The expansion of durable goods production reflects, among other factors, the recovery of real earnings and the expansion of credit. The expansion of capital goods production is due to positive prospects for domestic demand, and also to the influence of favorable international prices for some industrial sectors, in line with the last FGV survey, which revealed that 54% of the participants are likely to invest more in 2006 than they did in the previous year. 
6. The unemployment rate increased to 10.7% in July from 10.4% in June, as against the 9.4% reached in the same month last year. However, the average unemployment rate in the year through July was virtually unchanged compared to the same period last year, notwithstanding the 3.6% increase in labor force in July, compared to the same month last year. That result reflects that employed people grew 2.1%, according to the same comparison basis, indicating that the pace of jobs creation remains robust. The purchase power of workers decreased a month-on-month 0.7% in July, despite the 3.4% increase in July relative to the same month last year, and 4.2% in the year through July relative to the same period last year. As a result, real payrolls increased 6.2%, according to the same comparison basis. According to the National Industry Confederation (CNI), manufacturing employment decreased a month-on-month seasonally adjusted 0.2% in June, after four consecutive months of increase, but expanded 1.3%, compared to the same month last year. According to this comparison basis, manufacturing employment has grown for 29 consecutive months. In the last twelve months, the expansion totaled 2.2%. According to the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE), formal employment grew a month-on-month seasonally adjusted 0.6% in July, confirming the continuity of the ongoing expansion. In the twelve months through July, it increased by 5%, mainly driven by the expansions of 9.9% in civil construction and 6.2% in the retail sector. With the creation of 154,357 jobs in July (1.2 million in the last twelve months), year-to-date formal job creation increased to 1,078,155. 
7. IBGE seasonally adjusted data recorded a month-on-month seasonally adjusted 0.4% decrease in retail sales for June. This was the first decrease after three consecutive months of expansion. Retail sales increased 4.1% in June and 7.3% in May, compared to the same months of 2005. Sales expanded by 5.7% in the first half of the year, compared to the same period last year, and 5.3% in the last twelve months. In June, the seasonally adjusted sales in three out of four retail categories dropped. Only hyper-, supermarkets, beverages and tobacco sales increased, reflecting strengthening of the labor market. Despite the decrease in June, retail sales have outperformed industrial output and reflect favorable demand conditions. Retail sales expansion is expected to continue in the coming months, fostered by positive labor market and income developments, credit expansion and the monetary easing cycle, as well as by the recovery in consumer confidence and the expansionary impacts of the minimum wage rise. 
8. Installed capacity utilization in the manufacturing industry increased for the second consecutive month, to 82.2% in June up from 82.1% in May, according to CNI data seasonally adjusted by the BCB. In the first half of the year, the average installed capacity utilization stood 0.8 p.p. below the levels registered in the same period of 2005, although this difference has marginally decreased. This decline partially reflects the improvements in the productive capacity. In fact, recent data regarding output, absorption of capital goods and civil construction inputs suggest the expansion of investments. For example, in the year through June, the absorption of capital goods expanded by 9.7%, compared to the same period of 2005. The main drivers of this result were the increases in capital goods imports volume (29.6%) and in capital goods production (5.0%). Civil construction inputs expanded by 4.7%, according to the same comparison basis. Therefore, despite favorable prospects for aggregate demand expansion, relevant supply unbalances are not anticipated in the coming quarters. As stressed in previous Copom Minutes, the inflation trajectory is closely linked to current and prospective developments with regard to the expansion of supply to adequately meet demand conditions. 
9. The trade balance continues to present robust results in 2006, confirming previous Copom assessments regarding important structural changes in the Brazilian external trade. In the year through July, trade balance reached US$ 25.2 billion, above the level reached in the same period last year. Twelve-month trailing surplus through July reached US$45.2 billion, above the previous month, but slightly below the US$45.8 billion record high reached in March. Despite trade surpluses remain at elevated levels, this process was already expected and suggests the start of a new adjustment dynamics for the trade flows. Even so, twelve-month trailing exports through July reached US$128.1 billion, a new record high for the series. Similarly, imports have also continued to outperform, reaching a new record in July, US$82.9 billion, according to the same comparison basis. As a consequence, robust external results are expected in 2006 and 2007. The current account surplus stood at US$ 3 billion in July, a record high for the series, for a US$12.5 billion surplus in the twelve months through July, or 1.45% of GDP. 
10. Regarding the international scenario, it bears emphasizing the interruption in the monetary policy tightening cycle in the US, after seventeen consecutive interest rate increases. Despite the fact that additional increases cannot be discarded, the uncertainties regarding the monetary policy stance in the US are much weaker. On the other hand, concerns about the long monetary tightening cycle increased the fear of a recession in the US economy. 
11. The deterioration of the international scenario in the last months, especially with regard to higher risk aversion and lower international liquidity, had limited influence domestically. In fact, after an up-tick in May, the sovereign risk reached historically low levels in the last days. This fact corroborates recurrent analysis, expressed in previous Press Releases and Inflation Reports, that the Brazilian economy is more resilient to external shocks. In this context, the Copom reaffirms that the continued disinflation, robust and persistent trade surpluses, accumulation of international reserves, adequate public sector's primary surpluses, improved public sector's debt profile and buyback of external debt have strengthened the domestic resilience to external shocks. The improvement in domestic resilience to shocks reflected the evidence that the domestic economy has sustained the growth trend despite the long monetary adjustment process in course in the US, Euro zone and Japan. Therefore, the Copom continues to assign low probability to a significant deterioration in international financial market conditions that could affect Brazilian external financing. 
12. Another concern regarding the international scenario is the oil prices. Despite the decline observed since the last Copom meeting, oil prices remain at elevated levels, standing 20% above the level observed at the end of 2005. In addition, oil prices still present high volatility, reflecting geopolitical tensions. However, the current scenario might reflect structural unbalances in the oil market: oil prices might not face a temporary increase, but may resist at elevated levels longer than previously expected. As in previous months, the future oil prices trajectory still encompasses great uncertainty, and a significant downturn in prices seems less likely to occur in the short run. Therefore, as mentioned in last Copom Minutes, the scenario considered by the Copom, which attributes no change to domestic gasoline prices in 2006, has become less likely to occur, and consequently, the risks related to its materialization have increased significantly. Shall the trends recently observed materialize, the Copom may have to incorporate in the benchmark scenario an increase in domestic oil prices in 2006. In addition, apart from the effects of an increase in domestic fuel prices, the elevation in international oil prices affects the domestic economy through productive chains, such as the petrochemical, as well as through the deterioration of market inflation expectations. 
13. The inflation shocks ands their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations utilized the following assumptions: 
a) Compared to the values considered in the July Copom meeting, the projection for gasoline and bottled gas prices adjustments in 2006 remained in 0% and 0.1%, respectively, 
b) Considering the same comparison basis, the projections for fixed line telephone and household electricity adjustments in 2006 remained in 2.7% and –0.9%, respectively, 
c) The Copom maintained the 4.4% adjustment projection for all regulated prices in 2006. These items, according to the weights released by the IBGE, represent 31.19% of the total July IPCA, 
d) According to the endogenous determination model, the projection for regulated prices inflation in 2007 decreased to 6.1% from 6.2%. This model considers the effects of seasonal components, exchange rate, market prices inflation and the IGP, 
e) The projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, using a Vector Autoregressive model based on the Selic and 180-day swap rates on the eve of the meeting, stood at -35 b.p. in the third quarter of 2006, reaching -4 b.p. in the last quarter of 2006 and 59 b.p. in the last quarter of 2007. 
14. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the consolidated public sector primary surplus target of 4.25% of GDP in 2006 and 2007 will be achieved. The related assumptions considered in the previous meeting were maintained. 
15. Since the July Copom meeting, median IPCA inflation expectations for 2006, compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations Group (Gerin), decreased to 3.68% from 3.77%. The twelve-month ahead inflation expectations increased to 4.43% from 4.33%. For 2007, inflation expectations remained in line with the 4.50% target established by the CMN. As mentioned in previous Minutes, these developments suggest the consolidation of a more favorable long-term macroeconomic scenario. 
16. The 2006 inflation forecast under the benchmark scenario – which assumes the maintenance of the Selic rate at 14.75% and the exchange rate at R$/US$ 2.15 during the forecast period – remained almost stable compared to the values considered at the July Copom meeting, below the 4.50% target established by the CMN for the year. The forecast based on the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin on the eve of the Copom meeting – also remained almost stable relative to the values considered in the July Copom meeting, below the target for the year. The projections for 2007, according to both scenarios, also remained relatively stable compared to the July projections, below the 4.50% target in the benchmark scenario and above the 4.50% target in the market scenario. 
17. The Copom reaffirms the view that monetary policy has both contained short-term inflationary pressures and consolidated a more favorable long-term macroeconomic environment. The economic activity data still suggest expansion in line with the supply conditions in the next quarters, with low likelihood of significant pressure over inflation. Moreover, despite the prospects of lower liquidity in international markets, due to the interest rates increase in industrialized economies, and to oil prices swings at historically high levels, the external outlook remains favorable, particularly regarding Brazilian external financing. Therefore, even taking into account that part of the favorable results for the short-term inflation tends to revert in the future, the scenario for the inflation trajectory remains benign. As in the July meeting, the Copom emphasizes that the main challenge of the monetary policy in this context is to guarantee the consolidation of anticipated favorable developments. 
18. The uninterrupted convergence of inflation to the targets path and the resulting consolidation of a durable macroeconomic stability will contribute to the progressive reduction of macroeconomic risk perception underway. The scope for a reduction in real interest rates in the future will naturally follow as a consequence of this perception improvement. The Copom evaluates that its cautionary monetary policy stance has been critical to increasing the probability of inflation convergence to the targets path. For this to materialize, however, it is important that forward-looking inflation indicators remain consistent with the recent benign inflation outlook. 
19. The Copom emphasizes that there are important lags in monetary policy transmission to economic activity and inflation. Since the beginning of the monetary easing cycle, in September 2005, the Selic rate has been reduced by 500 b.p., with the greater part of the reduction concentrated in 2006. Consequently, the activity level has not completely mirrored the effects of the interest rates cuts, as well as the effects of the recent activity resumption on inflation have not completely materialized. 
20. During the coming months, employment and income expansions and credit growth will continue to bolster economic activity. As mentioned in the July Copom Minutes, activity level should also reflect the effects of the new minimum wage and the fiscal impulse occurred since the last quarter of 2005 and expected for the rest of 2006. Therefore, the effects of interest rates cuts will add up to other factors that will contribute to demand expansion. 
21. Given the reasons stated above, the Copom considered the convenience to reduce the Selic rate by 25 basis points. Despite considering that several factors would justify such decision, the Copom members concluded that, at the present moment, a 50 basis points reduction in the Selic rate would be a better response of the current monetary conditions to the improved inflation outlook observed between the July and August meetings. In light of this fact, the Copom unanimously decided to continue the monetary policy easing process begun in the September 2005 meeting and reduce the Selic rate target to 14.25% p.a., without bias, and follow the evolution of the macroeconomic scenario until the next meeting, at which time it will define the next steps in its monetary policy strategy. 
22. Given the existing incentives for expanding aggregate demand, the uncertainties surrounding the monetary policy transmission mechanisms and the lower distance between the current Selic rate and the medium-term interest rates, the Copom understood that the maintenance of important achievements in disinflation and in preserving economic growth, with job creation and rising real incomes, may demand a more cautious monetary easing stance. This argument is even more relevant in light of the fact that the monetary policy decisions in the coming months will produce concentrated impacts for 2007. 
23. Under an inflation-targeting regime, the monetary authority decides according to inflation prospects, analyzing alternative scenarios for the main variables that determine price dynamics. Despite the decrease in international financial markets volatility, some factors that caused heightened volatility in May still persist. In such an environment, the monetary authority must remain vigilant so that short-term uncertainties do not contaminate longer time horizons. In case of an exacerbation of the risk factors monitored by the Copom, the monetary policy strategy will be promptly adapted to the circumstances. 