1. After increasing just 0.05% in August, IPCA inflation reached 0.21% in September. This result was above market expectations on the eve of the disclosure of the index, but below expectations at the end of August. In the year through September, IPCA inflation totaled 2.0%, slightly above the half of the result observed in the same period of last year (3.95%). Twelve-month trailing inflation reduced to 3.70% in September down from 5.70% in January, the lowest level for the series since June 1999, when the inflation target regime was implemented. The inflation acceleration in September was driven by the increase in both market prices (0.21% increase compared to 0.09% in August), and regulated prices (0.22% increase compared to 0.03% in August). Among market prices, tradable prices increased to 0.16% in September up from –0.04% in August, while non-tradable prices increased to 0.25% up from 0.21% in August. The prices of services increased 0.38% in September , compared to 0.36% in August and 0.44% in September 2005. Even with this acceleration, a benign inflation scenario continues to evolve in line with the targets path, with favorable prospects for inflation in the coming years. 
2. IPCA core inflation measures calculated by the Central Bank confirm this scenario. Core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices reached 0.23% in September (compared to 0.14% in July, and 0.13% in August). Smoothed trimmed means core showed low volatility in the quarter, reaching 0.29%, 0.23%, and 0.32%, in July, August and September, respectively. On the other hand, after reaching 0.20% in July, non-smoothed trimmed means core was stable in August and increased 0.13% in September. These three core measures continue to present downward trends on a twelve-month trailing basis, reaching 3.64%, 5.17%, and 3.39% in September, compared to 6.44%, 7.15% and 5.78%, respectively, in September 2005. On a twelve-month trailing basis, both the core by exclusion (3.64%) and the non-smoothed core inflation (3.39%) stood below the midpoint of the target, similarly to the headline result. On the other hand, the smoothed core inflation has converged more slowly to the target, reaching 5.17% in the last twelve months through September, down from 5.40% in the last twelve months ended in August. 
3. In contrast with consumer price inflation, the General Price Index (IGP-DI) decelerated to 0.24% in September, down from 0.41% in August. Average monthly inflation decelerated to 0.27% in the third quarter, from 0.35% in the second quarter. In the year through September, the IGP-DI increased 2.11%, compared to 0.19% in the same period of last year. In the twelve months through September, the IGP-DI increased 3.16%, up from 2.78% in the twelve months through August. The IGP-DI fall in September was mainly driven by accommodation in wholesale industrial price inflation and decelerating civil construction costs. After presenting deflation in the three-month period ended in April, the IPA-DI increased in recent months, reaching a monthly average of 0.33% in the third quarter, and 0.28% in September. Agricultural IPA increased significantly in August and September (1.2% each month), continuing the trend started in the previous two months, while industrial prices reached 0.34% in August and were stable in September. With the rises in the last three months, the agricultural IPA inflation totaled 2% in the twelve months through September, up from -2.4% in August and –6.0% in July. On the other hand, the industrial IPA recorded 3.5% in the twelve months through September, down from 4.2% in August. Wholesale price inflation may continue to positively influence consumer price inflation in the coming quarters, despite the increases in agricultural prices. As emphasized in recent Copom Minutes, the continuity and strength of this pass-through will depend on demand conditions and price-setters’ expectations for the future inflation path. 
4. According to data from the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), industrial output recorded 0.7% in August, on a month-on-month seasonally adjusted basis, the same as in July, reaching a new record high. Thus, evidences suggest that industrial activity performance in July was an isolated event, influenced by non-recurrent one-off factors, as mentioned the previous Copom Minutes and the September Inflation Report. On a three-month moving average basis, industrial output slightly increased in August, very close to the record high registered in July. Industrial production expanded 3.2% in August, compared to the same month last year, after a 3.5% increase in July, according to the same comparison basis. In the year through August, industrial output expanded by 2.8%, compared to the same period last year, while twelve-month industrial production reached 2.2%. It bears emphasizing that the industrial output result in August reached 15 out of the 23 activities with seasonally adjusted data, or 65% of total industry. On average, only 53% of sectors grew on a month-on-month basis between January and August. For September, leading and coincident indicators suggest industrial output reduction, in month-on-month seasonally adjusted terms, and increase on a three-month moving average basis. These results shall reflect, to a large extent, expected negative performance in the automotive sector, due to interruptions in the production observed during the month in the main manufacturers. Several incentive factors, such as the monetary easing implemented since September 2005, suggest that the expanding trend in industry shall continue in the coming months. 
5. Disaggregated industrial data in August show that capital goods, intermediate goods and consumer goods production increased by 7.4%, 3.4%, and 2.1%, respectively, compared to the same month last year. On a month-on-month seasonally adjusted basis, capital goods output increased 2.8% in August, after expanding 1.2% in July. In the year through August, the main drivers of industrial growth have been durable consumer goods production (6.4%) and capital goods production (5.8%). The expansion of durable goods production reflects, among other factors, the recovery of real earnings and the expansion of credit. The expansion of capital goods production is due to positive prospects for domestic demand, and also to the influence of favorable international prices for some industrial sectors. 
6. The unemployment rate decreased to 10.6% in August, down from 10.7% in July, as against the 9.4% reached in the same month last year. The average unemployment rate in the year through August increased 0.15 p.p. compared to the same period last year, notwithstanding the 4.2% expansion in labor force in the last twelve months. The number of employed people grew 2.8% in the same period, indicating that the pace of jobs creation remains robust. In August, the purchase power of workers increased a month-on-month 0.7% and 3.5% compared to the same month last year, for a 4.2% expansion in the year through August. In addition, real payrolls increased 6.2% in the same period, an important factor for the growth of aggregate demand. According to the National Industry Confederation (CNI), manufacturing employment increased a month-on-month seasonally adjusted 0.4% in July and 0.3% in August. Compared to the same months last year, it reached 1.9% in July and 2.3% in August, growing for 31 consecutive months. According to the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE), formal employment grew a month-on-month seasonally adjusted 0.3% in August, confirming the continuity of the ongoing expansion. In the last twelve months, it increased by 4.9%, the same observed in the year through August, mainly driven by the expansions of 9.9% in civil construction and 6.1% in the retail sector. With the creation of 128,915 jobs in August (1.2 million in the last twelve months), year-to-date formal job creation increased to 1,207,070. 
7. After decreasing in June and July, IBGE seasonally adjusted data recorded a month-on-month seasonally adjusted 2.3% robust growth in retail sales for August. Compared to the same month last year, retail sales grew 6.3% in August. In the year through August, retail sales expanded by 5.3%, mainly driven by furniture and domestic appliances sales (8.3%) and hypermarket sales (7.2%). The positive performance of retail sales is not restricted to income- and labor-sensitive items, but also comprises credit-sensitive items. Retail sales expansion is expected to continue in the coming months, fostered by positive labor market and income developments, credit expansion and the monetary easing cycle, as well as by the recovery in consumer confidence. 
8. Installed capacity utilization in the manufacturing industry reached 81.8% in July and 81.7% in August, according to CNI data seasonally adjusted by the BCB. In the year through August, the average installed capacity utilization stood 0.6 p.p. below the levels registered in the same period of 2005, although this difference has marginally decreased. July and August levels increased 0.2 p.p. and 0.3 p.p., respectively, compared to the same months last year. This decline partially reflects the improvements in the productive capacity. In fact, recent data regarding output and absorption of capital goods suggest a robust ongoing expansion of investments. In the year through August, the absorption of capital goods expanded by 8.9%, mainly driven by the increases in capital goods imports volume (27.9%) and in capital goods production (5.8%). Civil construction inputs expanded by 5.3%, according to the same comparison basis. Therefore, despite the ongoing aggregate demand expansion, relevant aggregate supply unbalances are not anticipated in the coming quarters. As stressed in previous Copom Minutes, the inflation trajectory is closely linked to current and prospective developments with regard to the expansion of supply to adequately meet demand conditions. 
9. The trade balance continues to present robust results in 2006, confirming previous Copom assessments regarding important structural changes in the Brazilian external trade. In the year through September, the trade balance reached US$34.0 billion, 41% above the level reached in the same period last year. This result was driven by the record results of exports (US$100.7 billion) and imports (US$66.7 billion). Twelve-month trailing surplus through September reached US$46.1 billion, a new record high. As a result of domestic demand recovery, imports have marginally outperformed, recording a new record high (US$86.2 billion), according to the same comparison basis. Exports have also continued to expand, reaching a new record high (US$132.3 billion), according to the same comparison basis. As a consequence, robust external results are expected to continue in 2006 and 2007. The current account surplus stood at US$2.1 billion in August, reaching US$8.2 billion in the year, or 1.38% of GDP, for a US$13.8 billion surplus in the twelve months through August, or 1.60% of GDP. 
10. Regarding the international scenario, the uncertainties regarding the monetary policy stance in the US reduced in the last months. Although additional increases cannot be discarded, the consensus points to the fact that the bulk of the domestic interest rates hike may have already happened. On the other hand, concerns about the fact that the monetary tightening cycle may have been excessive increased the fear of a recession in the US economy, with potential implications for the Brazilian economy. However, it bears emphasizing the limited effects of the less favorable international outlook observed in the last months, when the concerns stated above were already present, especially with regard to the increased risk aversion and the lower international liquidity. In fact, after an up-tick in May, the sovereign risk reached historically low levels in the last months. This fact corroborates recurrent analysis, expressed in previous Press Releases and Inflation Reports, that the Brazilian economy is more resilient to external shocks. In this context, the Copom reaffirms that the continued disinflation, robust and persistent trade surpluses, the buildup of international reserves, adequate public sector's primary surpluses, improved public sector's debt profile and buyback of external debt have strengthened the domestic resilience to external shocks. Therefore, the Copom continues to assign low probability to a significant deterioration in international financial market conditions that could affect Brazilian external financing. 
11. Another concern regarding the international outlook, oil prices, has also dampened. Despite remaining at elevated levels, nominal oil prices have reduced since the last Copom meeting. However, oil prices still present high volatility, reflecting geopolitical tensions, among other factors. Nevertheless, the current scenario might reflect structural unbalances in the oil market, suggesting that permanent upward moves in oil prices have occurred. The future oil prices trajectory still encompasses great uncertainty, however, the scenario considered by the Copom, which attributes no change to domestic gasoline prices in 2006, has become more likely to occur, and consequently, the risks related to its materialization have decreased significantly. 
12. The inflation shocks ands their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations utilized the following assumptions: 
a) Compared to the values considered in the August Copom meeting, the projection for gasoline and bottled gas prices adjustments in 2006 remained in 0% and 0.1%, respectively, 
b) Considering the same comparison basis, the projections for fixed line telephone and household electricity adjustments in 2006 were changed to 2.5% and -0.8%, respectively, from 2.7% and –0.9%, 
c) The Copom maintained the 4.4% adjustment projection for all regulated prices in 2006. These items, according to the weights released by the IBGE, represent 31.2% of the total September IPCA, 
d) The projection for regulated prices inflation in 2007 decreased to 5.4%. Some regulated prices were projected apart, considering the information available. The projection for the other regulated prices continue to be based on the endogenous determination model. This model considers the effects of seasonal components, exchange rate, market prices inflation and the IGP, 
e) The projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, using a Vector Autoregressive model based on the Selic and 180-day swap rates on the eve of the meeting, stood at -64 b.p. in the fourth quarter of 2006, reaching 57 b.p. in the last quarter of 2007. 
13. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the consolidated public sector primary surplus target of 4.25% of GDP in 2006 and 2007 will be achieved. The related assumptions considered in the previous meeting were maintained. 
14. Since the August Copom meeting, median IPCA inflation expectations for 2006, compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations Group (Gerin), fell to 3.0% from 3.68%. This decrease was mainly driven by the incorporation of the August-September inflation rate, significantly below the projection presented in the August Copom meeting. The twelve-month ahead inflation expectations decreased to 4.06% from 4.33%. For 2007, inflation expectations also decreased to 4.2% from 4.50%. As mentioned in previous Minutes, these developments suggest the consolidation of a more favorable long-term macroeconomic scenario. 
15. The 2006 inflation forecast under the benchmark scenario – which assumes the maintenance of the Selic rate at 14.25% and the exchange rate at R$/US$2.15 during the forecast period – decreased compared to the values considered at the August Copom meeting, remaining below the 4.50% target established by the CMN for the year. The forecast based on the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin on the eve of the Copom meeting – also remained below the values considered in the August Copom meeting and below the central target for the year. The projections for 2007, according to both scenarios, also remained below the August projections, remaining below the 4.50% target in the benchmark scenario and above the 4.50% target in the market scenario. 
16. The Copom reaffirms the view that monetary policy has both contained short-term inflationary pressures and consolidated a more favorable long-term macroeconomic environment. The economic activity data still suggest expansion in line with the supply conditions in the next quarters, with low likelihood of significant pressure over inflation. Imports expansion has contributed significantly to this process, complementing domestic production and, therefore restricting potential inflationary effects of domestic demand growth. Moreover, despite the prospects of lower liquidity in international markets, due to the interest rates increase in industrialized economies, the external outlook remains favorable, particularly regarding Brazilian external financing. Therefore, even taking into account that part of the favorable results for the short-term inflation tends to revert in the future, the scenario for the inflation trajectory remains benign. As in the August meeting, the Copom emphasizes that the main challenge of the monetary policy in this context is to guarantee the consolidation of anticipated favorable developments. 
17. The preservation of inflation rates in line with the targets path and the consolidation of a long-lasting stable macroeconomic scenario will contribute to the progressive reduction of macroeconomic risk perception underway. The scope for a reduction in real interest rates in the future will naturally follow as a consequence of this improved perception. The Copom evaluates that its cautionary monetary policy stance has been critical to increasing the probability of inflation convergence to the targets path. For this to materialize, however, it is important that forward-looking inflation indicators remain consistent with the recent benign inflation outlook. 
18. The Copom emphasizes that there are important lags in monetary policy transmission to economic activity and inflation. Since the beginning of the monetary easing cycle, in September 2005, the Selic rate has been reduced by 550 b.p., with the greater part of the reduction concentrated in 2006. Consequently, the activity level has not completely mirrored the effects of the interest rates cuts, as well as the effects of the recent activity resumption on inflation have not completely materialized. 
19. During the coming months, employment and income expansions and credit growth will continue to bolster economic activity. As mentioned in the August Copom Minutes, activity level should also reflect the effects of the new minimum wage and the fiscal impulse occurred since the last quarter of 2005. Therefore, the effects of interest rates cuts will add up to other factors that will contribute to demand expansion. 
20. Given the reasons stated above, the Copom considered the convenience to reduce the Selic rate by 25 basis points. Despite considering that several factors would justify such decision, and that such decision would contribute to increase the magnitude of the total adjustment to be implemented, the Copom members concluded that, at the present moment, a 50-basis-point reduction in the Selic rate would be a better response of the current monetary conditions to the significantly improved inflation outlook observed between the August and October meetings. In light of this fact, the Copom unanimously decided to continue the monetary policy easing process begun in the September 2005 meeting and reduce the Selic rate target to 13.75% p.a., without bias, and monitor the evolution of the macroeconomic scenario until the next meeting, at which time it will define the next steps in its monetary policy strategy. 
21. Given the existing incentives for expanding aggregate demand, the uncertainties surrounding the monetary policy transmission mechanisms and the lower distance between the current Selic rate and the medium-term interest rates, the Copom understood that the maintenance of important achievements in disinflation and in preserving economic growth, with job creation and rising real incomes, may demand a more cautious monetary easing stance. This argument is even more relevant in light of the fact that the monetary policy decisions in the coming months will produce concentrated impacts for 2007. 
22. Under an inflation-targeting regime, the monetary authority decides according to inflation prospects, analyzing alternative scenarios for the main variables that determine price dynamics. Despite the decrease in international financial markets volatility, some factors that caused heightened volatility in previous months still persist. In such an environment, the monetary authority must remain vigilant so that short-term uncertainties do not contaminate longer time horizons. In case of an exacerbation of the risk factors monitored by the Copom, the monetary policy strategy will be promptly adapted to the circumstances. 