1. IPCA inflation has increased on a month-on-month basis, recording 0.33% in October, compared to 0.21% in September and to 0.05% in August. The last monthly result is in line with the expectations registered on the eve of the IPCA release, and is close to the expectations that prevailed at the end of September. Year-to-date IPCA inflation reached 2.33%, slightly lower than half of the 4.73% observed in the same period of 2005. Twelve-month trailing inflation reduced to 3.26% in October from 5.70% in January, the lowest level since the adoption of the inflation-targeting regime, in June 1999. IPCA inflation acceleration in October was mainly driven by the increase in market prices (0.43% up from 0.21% in September), not entirely offset by the regulated prices decrease (0.12% down from 0.22% in September). Amongst market prices, tradable prices increased to 0.42% in October up from 0.16% in September, while non-tradable prices increased to 0.44% up from 0.25%. The price of services increased to 0.43%, compared to 0.38% in September and 0.56% in October 2005. Partial November data, already captured by the IPCA-15, suggest that the IPCA change might be slightly above the expectations recorded on the days of the October Copom meeting. Despite the inflation acceleration in the last months, a benign inflation scenario continues to evolve in line with the targets path, with favorable prospects for inflation in the coming years. 
2. Similarly to the headline result, IPCA core inflation measures calculated by the BCB also increased in October. Core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices increased to 0.30% in October, compared to 0.23% in September and 0.13% in August. Smoothed trimmed means core repeated the 0.32% change observed in September, and has oscillated around 0.30% since June, recording the strongest rigidity among the three core measures. After registering no change in August, the non-smoothed trimmed means core increased 0.13% in September and 0.19% in October. Despite the recent increases, the cores continue to present a downward trend on a twelve-month basis. In October, the three measures reached 3.56%, 4.93% and 3.21%, respectively, compared to 6.25%, 7.13% and 5.72% in the same period of the last year. On a twelve-month trailing basis, both the core inflation by exclusion and the non-smoothed trimmed means core stood below the midpoint of the target, also similarly to the headline result. On the other hand, the smoothed core inflation has converged more slowly to the target, reaching 4.93% in October, compared to 5.21% in the twelve months ended in September, which is an expected behavior considering its implicit inertia. 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) inflation hiked significantly in October, to 0.81%, compared to 0.24% in September and 0.63% in October 2005. In the year through October, the IGP-DI increased 2.93%, compared to 0.82% in the same period of last year. In twelve months through October, the IGP-DI increased 3.34%, compared to 3.16% through September. The IGP-DI inflation acceleration in October was mainly driven by the strong increase in wholesale agricultural prices. The Wholesale Price Index (IPA-DI) inflation reached 1.16% in October, compared to 0.28% in September, reflecting the 5.18% increase in agricultural prices, the highest elevation since November 2002. Wholesale agricultural prices increased 10.00% since June (7.72% in the three months ended in October). As a result of the significant increase observed in the last five months, the agricultural prices inflation reached 6.4% in twelve months, compared to a 6% deflation in July. The wholesale industrial prices presented stability in the last months, with fuel prices decrease compensating elaborated food prices increases. With the agricultural prices hike, wholesale prices may not favorably contribute to a consumer prices accommodation as previously expected, signalizing the exhaustion of one of the determinant factors of the disinflation observed in the last quarters. As highlighted in previous Copom meeting minutes, the effects of the wholesale prices behavior over consumer inflation will depend on prospective demand conditions and price-setters’ expectations for the future inflation path. 
4. Industrial production, according to IBGE seasonally adjusted data, decreased 1.4% in September, compared to the previous month, after two months of expansion. The contraction was expected, but it was more intense than previously anticipated by the market. The decrease in manufacturing activity in September reached 12 out of the 23 activities with seasonally adjusted data, with highlights to automotive vehicles (-9.3%), whose performance was affected by the strike in important vehicle manufacturers. On a three-month moving average basis, industrial production remained stable, close to the record high observed last August. In September, industrial production expanded 1.3%, compared to the same month of last year, after increasing 3.2% in August. In the year through August, industrial production reached 2.7%, compared to the same period of last year, while on a twelve-month trailing basis, industrial output reached 2.3%. In the third quarter, industrial production increased 0.4%, quarter-on-quarter seasonally adjusted, after reaching 0.7% in the second quarter. For October, leading and coincident indicators suggest a recovery in relation to September, on a seasonally adjusted basis, with an increase of the more stable three-month moving average basis. These results shall reflect, among other factors, the normalization of the automotive sector production, due to the end of the strikes observed during September in some of the main manufacturers. Several incentive factors, including the monetary easing already implemented, suggest that the expanding trend in industry shall continue in the coming months. 
5. Disaggregated industrial data show expansions of 2.6% in consumer goods production and 0.8% in intermediate goods production, and a 0.4% contraction in capital goods production, compared to the same month of the previous year. On a month-on-month seasonally adjusted basis, all segments decreased, with highlights to durable consumer goods production (-4.4%). On the other hand, this sector has leaded industrial activity growth in the year (6.3%), followed by capital goods production (5.0%). The growth of durable consumer goods production reflects, among other factors, the recovery of real earnings and the expansion of credit. The expansion of capital goods production is due to positive prospects for domestic demand, and also to the influence of favorable international prices for some industrial sectors. 
6. Labor market results remain positive, with decreasing unemployment, expansion of jobs creation and higher purchase power of workers. The unemployment rate in the six main metropolitan areas reached 9.8% in October, compared to 10.0% in September and 9.6% in October 2005. In the Rio de Janeiro metropolitan area, unemployment stood at 7.3%, the lowest rate for October months since the beginning of the IBGE series. As a result, the average unemployment rate in the year through October was 0.2 percentage points higher than that of the same period last year, notwithstanding the 2.4% expansion in labor force. The number of employed people grew 2.2% both in the year through October and on a twelve-month trailing basis, indicating that the pace of jobs creation remains robust. In October, the purchase power of workers increased a month-on-month 1.2% and 5.4% compared to the same month last year, for a 4.1% expansion in the year through October. In addition, real payrolls increased 6.4% in the same period, an important factor for the growth of aggregate demand. According to the National Industry Confederation (CNI), manufacturing employment increased a month-on-month seasonally adjusted 0.3% in September and 1.7% in the year. Compared to the same month last year, it reached 2.7% in September. According to the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE), formal employment grew a month-on-month seasonally adjusted 0.5% in October, confirming the continuity of the ongoing expansion. In the last twelve months, it increased by 4.9%, the same observed in the year through September, mainly driven by the expansions of 9.6% in civil construction and 6.0% in the retail sector. With the creation of 129,795 jobs in October (1.2 million in the last twelve months), year-to-date formal job creation increased to 1,513,600. 
7. After decreasing in June and July, IBGE data recorded a month-on-month seasonally adjusted 2.7% robust growth in retail sales for August and 2.1% for September. Compared to the same months of last year, retail sales grew 10.1% in September and 6.3% in August. In the year through September, retail sales expanded by 5.8%, mainly driven by furniture and domestic appliances sales (9.6%) and hyper- and supermarket sales (7.7%). The positive performance of retail sales is not restricted to income- and labor-sensitive items, but also comprises credit-sensitive items. Retail sales expansion is expected to continue in the coming months, fostered by positive labor market and income developments, credit expansion and the monetary easing cycle, as well as by the recovery in consumer confidence. 
8. Installed capacity utilization in the manufacturing industry reached 82.1% in September compared to 81.9% in August, according to CNI data seasonally adjusted by the BCB. Considering non-seasonally adjusted data, the average installed capacity utilization through September was 0.4 p.p. lower than that of the same period last year, although this difference has reverted on the margin. Thus, August and September levels increased 0.6 p.p. and 0.8 p.p., respectively, compared to the same months last year. The decline in the average utilization partially reflects the improvements in the productive capacity. In fact, recent data regarding output and absorption of capital goods suggest a robust ongoing expansion of investments. In the year through September, the absorption of capital goods expanded by 8.3%, mainly driven by the increases in capital goods imports volume (26.7%) and in capital goods production (5.0%). Civil construction inputs expanded by 5.0%, according to the same comparison basis. Therefore, despite the ongoing aggregate demand expansion, relevant aggregate supply imbalances are not anticipated in the coming quarters. As stressed in previous Copom Minutes, the inflation trajectory is closely linked to current and prospective developments with regard to the expansion of supply to adequately meet demand conditions. 
9. The trade balance continues to present robust results in 2006, confirming previous Copom assessments regarding important structural changes in the Brazilian external trade. In the year through October, the trade balance reached US$37.9 billion, 4.3% above the level reached in the same period last year. This result was driven by the record results of exports (US$113.4 billion) and imports (US$75.5 billion). Twelve-month trailing surplus through October reached US$46.3 billion, a new record high. As a result of domestic demand recovery, imports have outperformed on the margin, recording a new record high (US$88.8 billion), according to the same comparison basis. In spite of this increase, exports have also continued to expand, reaching a new record high (US$135.1 billion), according to the same comparison basis. As a consequence, robust external results are expected to continue in 2006 and 2007. The current account surplus stood at US$1.5 billion in October, reaching US$11.7 billion in the year, or 1.51% of GDP, for a US$14.0 billion surplus in the twelve months through October, or 1.54% of GDP. 
10. Regarding the international scenario, the uncertainties regarding the monetary policy stance in the US persist. Although additional interest rate increases cannot be discarded, the consensus points to the fact that the bulk of the domestic interest rate increase may have already happened. On the other hand, concerns about the fact that the monetary tightening cycle may have been excessive continued to increase the fear of a recession in the US economy, with potential implications for the Brazilian economy. However, it bears emphasizing, so far, the limited effects of the less favorable international outlook observed in the last months, when the concerns stated above were already present, especially with regard to the increased risk aversion and the lower international liquidity. In fact, after an up-tick in May, the sovereign risk reached historically low levels in the last months, remaining stable during the electoral process. This fact corroborates recurrent analysis, expressed in previous Press Releases and Inflation Reports, that the Brazilian economy is more resilient to external shocks. In this context, the Copom reaffirms that the continued disinflation, robust and persistent trade surpluses, the buildup of international reserves, adequate public sector's primary surpluses, improved public sector's debt profile and buyback of external debt have strengthened the domestic resilience to external shocks. Therefore, the Copom continues to assign low probability to a significant deterioration in international financial market conditions that could affect Brazilian external financing. 
11. Another concern regarding the international outlook, oil prices, has also dampened. Oil prices slightly decreased since the last Copom meeting, but nominal oil prices remain at historically high levels. In addition, oil prices still present high volatility, reflecting, among other factors, geopolitical tensions. It is worth mentioning that the dynamics observed in the last years reflects, to a great extent, structural imbalances in the oil market, suggesting that permanent upward moves in oil prices have occurred. The future oil prices trajectory still encompasses great uncertainty, however, the scenario considered by the Copom, which attributes no change to domestic gasoline prices in 2006, has become more likely to occur, and the risks related to its materialization have decreased significantly. Despite the stability in domestic gasoline prices, changes in international oil prices affect domestic oil prices, for instance, through productive chains, such as the petrochemical, as well as through the deterioration of market inflation expectations. 
12. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations utilized the following assumptions: 
a) Compared to the values considered in the Octobert Copom meeting, the projection for gasoline, bottled gas, and fixed line telephone prices adjustments in 2006 remained in 0%, 0.1%, and –0.8% respectively, 
b) Considering the same comparison basis, the projections for household electricity adjustments in 2006 were changed to 0.3% from 2.5%, 
c) The Copom maintained the 4.4% adjustment projection for all regulated prices in 2006. These items, according to the weights released by the IBGE, represent 31.2% of the total October IPCA, 
d) The projection for regulated prices inflation in 2007 decreased to 4.8%. Some regulated prices were projected apart, considering the information available. The projection for the other regulated prices continue to be based on the endogenous determination model. This model considers the effects of seasonal components, exchange rate, market prices inflation and the IGP, 
e) The projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, using a Vector Autoregressive model based on the Selic and 180-day swap rates on the eve of the meeting, stood at -53 b.p. in the fourth quarter of 2006, reaching 57 b.p. in the last quarter of 2007. 
13. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the consolidated public sector primary surplus target of 4.25% of GDP in 2006 and 2007 will be achieved. The related assumptions considered in the previous meeting were maintained. 
14. Since the October Copom meeting, median IPCA inflation expectations for 2006, compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations Group (Gerin), increased to 3.15% from 3.0%. This increase was mainly driven by the incorporation of the October inflation rate and an increase of inflation expectations for the remaining months of 2006. The twelve-month ahead inflation expectations increased to 4.17% from 4.06%. For 2007, inflation expectations decreased to 4.1% from 4.2%. As mentioned in previous Minutes, these developments suggest the consolidation of a more favorable long-term macroeconomic scenario. 
15. The 2006 inflation forecast under the benchmark scenario – which assumes the maintenance of the Selic rate at 13.75% and the exchange rate at R$/US$2.15 during the forecast period – increased compared to the values considered at the October Copom meeting, remaining below the 4.50% target established by the CMN for the year. The forecast based on the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin on the eve of the Copom meeting – also remained above the values considered in the October Copom meeting, but below the central target for the year. On the other hand, the projections for 2007, according to both scenarios, reduced relative to the October projections, remaining below the 4.50% target in both scenarios. 
16. The Copom reaffirms the view that monetary policy has both contained short-term inflationary pressures and consolidated a more favorable long-term macroeconomic environment. Economic activity data still suggest low likelihood of significant pressure over inflation. Imports expansion has contributed significantly to this process, complementing domestic production and, therefore, restricting potential inflationary effects of domestic demand growth. Moreover, despite the prospects of lower liquidity in international markets, due to the interest rates increase in industrialized economies, the external outlook remains favorable, particularly regarding Brazilian external financing. Therefore, the scenario for the inflation trajectory remains benign. As in the October meeting, the Copom emphasizes that the main challenge of the monetary policy in this context is to guarantee the consolidation of anticipated favorable developments. 
17. The Copom evaluates that the short-term inflation increase has been mainly driven by an expected upturn in food prices, observed in the last months. Since these effects have not depleted, it is likely that upcoming inflation indicators still capture those increases. Due to the nature of such pressures, they are expected to be temporary, with reduced intensity throughout time, without necessarily contaminating longer-time horizons. However, the Copom will continue to conduct the monetary policy stance so that the gains obtained in inflation control in recent years become permanent. For this to materialize, the Copom will carefully monitor the evolution of inflation and the several core inflation measures in the upcoming months, discriminating between one-off and persistent or generalized price increases, and promptly adapting the monetary stance to the circumstances. 
18. The preservation of inflation rates in line with the targets path and the consolidation of a long-lasting stable macroeconomic scenario will contribute to the progressive reduction of macroeconomic risk perception underway. The scope for a reduction in real interest rates in the future will naturally follow as a consequence of this improved perception. The Copom evaluates that its cautionary monetary policy stance has been critical to increasing the probability of inflation convergence to the targets path. For this to materialize, however, it is important that forward-looking inflation indicators remain consistent with the recent benign inflation outlook observed in the last quarters. 
19. The Copom emphasizes, once more, that there are important lags in monetary policy transmission to economic activity and inflation. Since the beginning of the monetary easing cycle, in September 2005, the Selic rate has been reduced by 600 b.p., with the greater part of the reduction concentrated in 2006. Consequently, the activity level has not completely mirrored the effects of the interest rates cuts, as well as the effects of the economic activity resumption on inflation have not completely materialized. Therefore, the evaluation of alternative monetary policy stances should necessarily concentrate on the prospects for inflation and the risks associated to its materialization, instead of current inflation indicators. 
20. During the coming months, employment and income expansions and credit growth will continue to bolster economic activity. As mentioned in the October Copom Minutes, activity level should also reflect the effects of the governmental transfers and other fiscal impulses occurred since the last quarter of 2005 and expected to continue next year. Therefore, the effects of interest rates cuts will add up to other factors that will contribute to demand expansion. 
21. Given the existing incentives for expanding aggregate demand, the uncertainties surrounding the monetary policy transmission mechanisms and the lower distance between the current Selic rate and the medium-term interest rates, the Copom understood that the maintenance of important achievements in disinflation and in preserving economic growth, with job creation and rising real incomes, may demand a more cautious monetary easing stance. This argument is even more relevant in light of the fact that the monetary policy decisions in the coming months will produce concentrated impacts for 2007. 
22. Given the reasons stated above, the Copom considered the convenience to reduce the Selic target by 25 basis points. The Copom members consensually concluded that several factors would justify such decision, and that such decision would contribute to increase the magnitude of the total adjustment to be implemented. However, there was no consensus that the lower pace of the monetary easing should start at the present meeting. 
23. Three members of the Copom voted for a 25-basis-point reduction in the Selic target, considering that the current balance of risks justifies such decision. However, the majority of the members of the Copom emphasized that the information available at the present moment would not justify a change in the pace of the monetary easing process underway and that it would be necessary to wait the evolution of the macroeconomic outlook until the next meeting, so that to consider the convenience to reduce the Selic target by 25 basis points. 
24. Therefore, the Copom decided to reduce in the Selic target by 50 basis points to 13.25% p.a., without bias. Five votes were for the Copom monetary policy action, while three votes were in favor of reducing the Selic target by 25 basis points. 
25. Under an inflation-targeting regime, the monetary authority decides according to inflation prospects, analyzing alternative scenarios for the main variables that determine price dynamics. Despite the decrease in international financial markets volatility, some factors that caused heightened volatility in previous months still persist. In such an environment, the monetary authority must remain vigilant so that short-term uncertainties do not contaminate longer time horizons. In case of an exacerbation of the risk factors monitored by the Copom, the monetary policy strategy will be promptly adapted to the circumstances. 