1. IPCA inflation slightly declined in January and reached 0.44%, down from 0.48% in the previous month and 0.59% in the same month of last year. The January result stood slightly below expectations registered on the eve of the IPCA release, and slightly above the expectations that prevailed at the end of 2006. Inflation deceleration in January was mainly driven by the behavior of regulated prices, which increased 0.27% down from 0.83% in December. Market prices increased 0.52%, up from 0.32% in December (non-tradable prices contributed 0.80%, up from 0.24% in December, while tradable prices accounted for only 0.22%, down from 0.40% in the previous month). Amongst market prices, the sharpest increases were for ethanol (7.23%) and perishable food (5.38%). However, recent developments suggest the reversal of this trend. Services inflation stood at 0.48% in January, significantly above the December result (0.19%), but below the January 2006 figure (0.68%). Twelve-month trailing inflation decelerated in January to 2.99% down from 3.14% in December. Market prices inflation totaled 2.49% (tradable prices inflation contributed 1.19%, while non-tradable prices inflation accounted for 3.89%), whilst regulated prices reached 3.95%. Services inflation fell to 5.28% in January, down from 5.48% in December, according to the same comparison basis. Partial February data, already captured by the IPCA-15 and underlying inflation measures, suggest that inflation may be stabilizing. Despite the recent inflation acceleration observed at the end of 2006 and the start of 2007, the most likely scenario is that inflation evolves according to the targets path.
2. IPCA core inflation measures calculated by the BCB increased in January, on a month-on-month basis. Core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices totaled 0.41% in January, up from 0.34% in December and 0.23% in November. Smoothed trimmed means core, which had increased to 0.38% in December (up from 0.27% in November), reached 0.39%, and continued to record the strongest rigidity among the three core measures. Conversely, after increasing to 0.27% in December (up from 0.12% in November), the non-smoothed trimmed means core increased again to 0.35% in January. Despite the recent increases, the cores continue to present a downward trend on a twelve-month basis. According to this comparison basis, the inflation cores recorded 3.09%, 4.40% and 2.49% in January, respectively, compared to 3.56%, 4.63% and 2.76% in December.
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) inflation accelerated to 0.43% in January, up from 0.26% in December, but decreased to 0.23% in February. On a twelve-month trailing basis, after reaching 3.49% in January – the first fall observed since May 2006 – the IGP-DI inflation accelerated to 3.79% in February, virtually unchanged relative to December, suggesting accommodation of the index. IGP-DI components behaved similarly to the headline index at the start of the year, increasing in January and decreasing in February, on a month-on-month basis. The IPC-DI increased 0.69% in January (up from 0.63% in December) and 0.34% in February. The Wholesale Price Index (IPA-DI) inflation increased 0.32% in January (up from 0.11% in December) and 0.19% in February. Conversely, the INCC-DI increased 0.45% in January (up from 0.36% in December) and 0.21% in February. On a twelve-month trailing basis, the IPA-DI decreased to 3.79% in January down from 4.29% in December, the first deceleration in the last eight months, according to this comparison basis. This behavior suggests that the relative price adjustment observed during the last months of 2006 – mainly driven by agricultural prices – seems to have come to an end, as mentioned in the last Inflation Report. As highlighted in previous Copom Minutes, the effects of wholesale prices over consumer inflation will depend on prospective demand conditions and price-setters’ expectations for the future inflation path.
4. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew 2.9% in 2006, accelerating in the fourth quarter, both compared to the same quarter of the previous year and on a quarter-on-quarter basis. According to IBGE seasonally adjusted data, GDP increased 1.1% quarter-on-quarter and 3.8% compared to the same quarter of 2005 (0.6 p.p. above the 3.2% observed in the third quarter). Moreover, data from the second and third quarters were revised, indicating a 0.2 p.p. growth elevation for each. Considering the historical series, for the first time since the end of 1986, economic activity has grown for thirteen consecutive quarters, when compared to the same quarter of the previous year, suggesting the consolidation of the expansion process.
5. On the supply side, 2006 GDP expanded by 3.2% in the agriculture sector, 3.0% in industry and 2.4% in services. After presenting unsatisfactory growth in 2005 (0.8%) and on the first half of 2006, agriculture rebounded in the second half of last year, expanding more than the other sectors. Regarding the industrial sector, it bears emphasizing the performances of mining (5.6% growth) and civil construction (4.5% growth). Regarding services, the retail activity outperformed, growing by 4.0%. On the demand side, gross fixed capital formation (FBCF) presented an outstanding performance, growing by 6.3% (the second best result in the last nine years). Household consumption (3.8% expansion) also outperformed, mainly due to the income growth and positive credit market developments. Imports volume increased significantly (18.1%), in line with expectations. In contrast to pessimist expectations of the start of 2006, exports volume expanded by 5%.
6. Industrial production, according to IBGE month-on-month seasonally adjusted data, decreased by 0.3% in January. This result was strongly influenced by technical interruptions in Petrobras platforms. Despite trending sideways through the first nine months of 2006, manufacturing production grew in the last three months of the year, showing, undoubtedly, signs of industrial activity acceleration. For instance, manufacturing production expanded in all three months of last quarter, recording, for the first time since October 2004, three consecutive positive results. Industrial production increased by 2.8% in 2006, with expansions of 2.6% for manufacturing industry and 7.4% for mining. Capital goods production expanded by 5.7%, while durable goods production expanded by 5.8%. Industrial activity expanded for the tenth consecutive month in January on a seasonally adjusted three-month moving average basis, despite some deceleration at the margin. For February, leading and coincident indicators suggest expansion. Several incentive factors, including the monetary easing already implemented and the fiscal impulses, suggest that the expanding trend in industry shall accelerate in 2007.
7. Disaggregated industrial data showed month-on-month seasonally adjusted expansions of 1.7% in capital goods production and 2.1% in durable consumer goods production in January. This result points to the continuity, in 2007, of the robust performance for Gross Fixed Capital Formation (FBCF) observed last year. On the other hand, intermediate goods production contracted 0.3% in January, after two consecutive monthly increases, due to technical interruptions in the production of fuel and lubricants. Compared to the same month last year, all categories increased, with highlights to the expansions of capital goods production (18.0%). The expansion of durable consumer goods production reflects, among other factors, the recovery of real earnings and the expansion of credit. The strong expansion of capital goods production reflects both the activity rebound, positive prospects for domestic growth and favorable international prices in the purchase of goods destined to several sectors.
8. Labor market performance remains positive, with employment and income expansions. The unemployment rate in the six main metropolitan areas reached 8.4% in December. Porto Alegre, Recife, Rio de Janeiro and Salvador recorded the lowest rates for December months since the start of the IBGE series. The unemployment rate increased to 9.3% in January, in line with the seasonal pattern, similarly to the January 2006 figure. The unemployment rate stability results from the 2.6% expansion rate for both the number of employed people and the labor force. The number of formal workers in private sector grew 4.1%, whereas the number of informal workers decreased 3.3% in January, compared to the same month last year, indicating that the pace of formal jobs creation remains robust, with positive effects over labor market conditions and labor productivity. Still in January, real average earnings fell a month-on-month 1.1% and increased 4.7% over the same month last year. In addition, real payrolls increased 7.4% in January over the same month last year, sustaining the positive growth trend. According to the National Industry Confederation (CNI), manufacturing employment increased a month-on-month seasonally adjusted 0.2% in December, for a 4.2% growth over the last thirteen consecutive months of expansion, except for the stability observed in June 2006. Regarding formal employment, data from the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) confirms the continuity of the ongoing expansion, despite the reduction of 317,000 jobs in December, a usual performance for this month. Formal job creation reached 1,228,686, totaling more than 4,000,000 formal jobs in the last three years. The number of formal jobs expanded by 4.9% in 2006, year-overyear, due to the expansions of 9.2% in civil construction, 6.0% in the retail sector, 5.3% in services and 3.4% in the industry sector. In January 2007, 105,468 jobs were created, totaling almost a 22% expansion over the same month last year. In the twelve months through January, formal job creation grew 4.8%, with highlights to civil construction (6.4%) and the retail sector (5.7%), whereas manufacturing employment increased by 4.4%.
9. Retail sales decreased 0.5% in December 2006, according to month-on-month seasonally adjusted IBGE data. This reduction interrupted a four-consecutive-month expansion period, which totaled a 5.4% increase. Even including the December result, the quarterly index increased 2.6% quarter-on-quarter, or 10.8% in annualized terms. Retail sales grew 5.7% in December, compared to the same month of last year, and 6.2% in 2006. This increase was mainly driven by hyper- and supermarket sales (6.8% growth), influenced by labor and income positive developments, and furniture and domestic appliances sales (6.1% growth), as a result of increased payroll and better credit conditions. The main negative driver was fuel and lubricants sales, which registered a 24- consecutive -month contraction, despite the increase in the sales of vehicles. Expanded retail sales, which include the sales of civil construction material and vehicles, motorcycles, parts and pieces, increased 6.5% in December 2006, compared to December 2005 results. In 2006, expanded retail sales increased by 6.4%, mainly as a result of the performance in the second half of the year (increases of 4.1% in the first half and 8.5% in the second half of the year, compared, respectively, to the same periods the previous year). Considering that the factors that have been boosting private consume continue, such as the positive outcomes stemming from the increase in real payrolls, credit expansion and the lagged effects of the monetary easing cycle, retail sales results in December are in line with the usual pattern of high frequency indicators, and do not necessarily sign a downturn in retail sales expansion. In fact, the vehicle sales performance observed at the start of 2007 corroborates robust domestic demand.
10. Installed capacity utilization in the manufacturing industry in 2006 stood 0.14 p.p. below that observed in 2005. According to CNI data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, installed capacity utilization in the manufacturing industry reached 81.93% in December, up from 81.86% in the same month of 2005. Disaggregated indicat ors compiled by the FGV show utilization rates at historically high levels for capital goods and civil construction. The lower installed capacity utilization recorded in 2006 partially reflects improvements in the productive capacity. In fact, recent data regarding output and absorption of capital goods suggest a robust ongoing expansion of investments. The absorption of capital goods expanded by 5.6% in the last quarter of 2006, quarter-on-quarter, resulting in the significant 8.9% increase in 2006. This result was mainly driven by the increases of capital goods imports volume (24.0%) and at a lower, but robust pace, capital goods production (5.7%). Therefore, despite the expectation of aggregate demand expansion in 2007, relevant aggregate supply imbalances that could jeopardy the inflation targets are not anticipated in the coming quarters. As stressed in previous Copom Minutes, the inflation trajectory is closely linked to current and prospective developments with regard to the expansion of supply to adequately meet demand conditions.
11. Similarly to the results observed at the start of 2006, the trade balance continues to frustrate the less optimistic expectations, recording robust results at the start of 2007. However, on the margin, the trade surpluses have gradually been compressed, as expected. In fact, in January/February, the trade surplus reached US$ 5.4 billion, 4.5% lower than that observed in the same period last year. Despite this fact, exports reached a US$ 21.1 billion record high in the first two months of 2007, a 16.9% increase over the same period of 2006. In the twelve months through February, exports reached US$ 140.5 billion, also a record high. Imports reached US 15.7 billion in the first two months and US$ 94.7 billion in the last twelve months, both historical record highs. Imports have been growing more than exports on the margin, as a result of the domestic demand expansion. However, robust trade results are expected to continue in 2007. These favorable track records corroborate the analysis expressed in previous Copom Minutes regarding important structural changes in Brazilian external trade. The current account surplus stood at US$ 388 million in December, totaling US$ 13.5 billion in 2006, or 1.4% of GDP. In January, the current account surplus reached US$ 325 million, for a US$ 14.2 billion surplus in the twelve months through January, or 1.5% of GDP.
12. With regard to the international scenario, uncertainties surrounding the monetary policy stance in the US persist. Although additional interest rate increases cannot be discarded, the consensus points to the fact that the bulk of the US domestic interest rate increase may have already happened. On the other hand, it seems to have been an increase in the market sensibility to data indicating a more pronounced slowdown in the US economy. This slowdown was the focus of the volatility increase that characterized the international financial markets in the last weeks, although uncertainties regarding Asian economies and markets have contributed as well. In Copom´s view, these global financial markets instability and their consequences to the Brazilian asset prices do not characterize a crisis environment both due to its transitory causes and to the solid Brazilian macroeconomic fundamentals. The continued disinflation, robust and persistent trade surpluses, the accumulation of international reserves, adequate public sector's primary surpluses, improved public sector's domestic debt profile and buyback of external debt have strengthened the domestic resilience to external shocks. This increase in resilience to shocks was reflected in the fact that the Brazilian growth trend has been kept even in the context of interest rate adjustment in the industrialized countries. Therefore, the Copom continues to assign low probability to a significant deterioration in international financial market conditions that could affect Brazilian external financing.
13. The international oil prices recovered in the last weeks, after a strong decline before the last Copom meeting. In addition, oil prices still present high volatility, reflecting, among other factors, geopolitical tensions and climatic events. Despite this increased volatility in the oil markets, the main scenario considered by the Copom, which attributes no change to domestic gasoline prices in 2007, continues plausible.
14. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations utilized the following assumptions: 
a) Compared to the values considered in the January Copom meeting, the projection for gasoline and bottled gas prices adjustments in 2007 were both maintained at 0%;
b) Considering the same comparison basis, the projection for fixed telephone price adjustments in 2007 remained at 3.9%, while the projection for household electricity price adjustments decreased to 3.3% from 4.6%;
c) The projection for regulated prices inflation in 2007 was maintained at 4.5%. These items, according to the weights released by the IBGE, represent 31.15% of the total January IPCA;
d) The projection for regulated prices inflation in 2008 was maintained at 5.6%, the same projection presented in the last Copom meeting. This projection is based on the endogenous determination model for regulated prices. This model considers the effects of seasonal components, exchange rate change, market prices inflation and the IGP;
e) The projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, using a Vector Autoregressive model based on the Selic and 180-day swap rates on the eve of the meeting, stood at 40 b.p. in the fourth quarter of 2007, reaching 64 b.p. in the last quarter of 2008.
15. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the consolidated public sector primary surplus target of 4.25% of GDP in 2007 and 2008 will be achieved, adjusted by the possibility of a 0.5 p.p. reduction in this percentage due to the implementation of PPI (Investment Pilot Program). The related assumptions considered in the previous meeting were maintained.
16. Since the January Copom meeting, median IPCA inflation expectations for 2007, compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations Group (Gerin), decreased to 3.88% from 4.07%. This reduction was mainly driven by the incorporation of the January inflation rate and a decrease of inflation expectations for the first quarter of 2007. The twelve-month ahead inflation expectations decreased to 3.8% down from 4.04%. For 2008, inflation expectations were maintained in 4%. As mentioned in previous Minutes, these developments suggest the consolidation of a more favorable long-term macroeconomic scenario.
17. The 2007 inflation forecast under the benchmark scenario – which assumes the maintenance of the Selic rate at 13.0% and the exchange rate at R$2.10//US$ during the forecast period – was maintained compared to the values considered at the January Copom meeting, remaining below the 4.5% target established by the CMN for the year. The forecast based on the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin on the eve of the Copom meeting – situated below the values considered in the January Copom meeting and below the central target for the year. The projection for 2008, in the benchmark scenario, was maintained in relation to the January projection, remaining below the 4.5% target. In the market scenario, despite the projection for 2008 was reduced, it still remains above the 4.5% target.
18. The Copom reaffirms the view expressed in previous Minutes, that in addition to containing short-term inflationary pressures, monetary policy has also contributed significantly for the consolidation of a favorable longterm macroeconomic environment. Economic activity data still do not suggest high probability of important pressures over inflation in the short-run. Imports expansion has contributed significantly to this process, complementing domestic production and, therefore, limiting potential inflationary effects of aggregate demand sustained growth. Moreover, despite the prospects of lower liquidity in international markets, due to the interest rates increase in industrialized economies, and the recent – and probably temporary - volatility increase in the global markets, the external outlook remains favorable. Particularly regarding Brazilian external financing, the Copom continues to assign low probability to a significant deterioration in international financial market conditions. Therefore, the prospects for the inflation trajectory remain benign. As in the January meeting, the Copom emphasizes that the main challenge of the monetary policy in this context is to guarantee the consolidation of positive developments anticipated for the future. 
19. The Copom evaluates that the short-term inflation increase has been mainly determined by one-off factors, such as public transportation fares and food prices. Seasonal effects, such as higher education costs, impacted preliminary February inflation measures. Since these effects have not exhausted yet, upcoming inflation indicators will likely continue to reflect those increases. Due to the nature of such pressures, they are expected to be temporary, with decreasing intensity throughout time, without necessarily affecting longer-time horizons. However, the Copom will continue to manage the monetary policy stance so that the gains obtained in inflation control in recent years become permanent. In this respect, the Copom will carefully monitor the evolution of inflation and the several core inflation measures in the upcoming months, discriminating between one-off and persistent or generalized price increases, and promptly adjusting the monetary policy stance to the circumstances.
20. The preservation of inflation rates in line with the targets path and the consolidation of a long-lasting stable macroeconomic scenario will contribute to the progressive reduction of macroeconomic risk perception underway. The scope for a reduction in real interest rates in the future will naturally follow as a consequence of this improved perception. The Copom evaluates that its cautious monetary policy stance has been critical to increasing the probability of inflation convergence to the targets path. For this to materialize, however, it is important that forwardlooking inflation indicators remain consistent with the recent benign inflation outlook observed in the last quarters.
21. The Copom emphasizes, once again, that there are important time lags in the transmission of monetary policy stance to economic activity and inflation. Since the beginning of the monetary easing cycle, in September 2005, the Selic rate has already been reduced by 675 b.p., with the bulk of the reduction concentrated in the second half of 2006. Consequently, the activity level has not completely mirrored the effects of the interest rates cuts, as well as the effects of the economic activity resumption on inflation have not completely materialized. Therefore, the evaluation of alternative monetary policy stances should necessarily focus on the prospective inflation scenario and its risks, instead of current inflation indicators.
22. During the coming months, employment and income expansions and credit growth will continue to bolster economic activity. As mentioned in recent Copom Minutes, activity level should also reflect the effects of governmental transfers and other fiscal impulses occurred in 2006 and expected for this year. Consequently, the lagged effects of interest rates cuts on an increasingly robust aggregate demand will add up to other factors that will continue to contribute to this expansion. These issues become even more relevant considering the signs of heated aggregate demand, short-term inflation pressures, and the fact that the monetary policy decisions should have concentrated effects in the second half of 2007 and, progressively, in 2008.
23. In light of the existing incentives for expanding aggregate demand, the uncertainties surrounding the monetary policy transmission mechanisms, the lower distance between the current Selic rate and the medium-term equilibrium interest rates, and the interest rate cuts implemented since September 2005, the Copom members understood that the preservation of important achievements in disinflation and in preserving economic growth, with job creation and rising real income, demands a more cautious monetary easing stance.
24. Given the reasons stated above, the Copom unanimously decided to continue the monetary easing cycle, started in the September 2005 meeting, and reduce the Selic target rate to 12.75% p.a., without bias.
25. Under an inflation-targeting regime, the monetary authority decides according to inflation prospects, analyzing alternative scenarios for the main variables that determine price dynamics. The international scenario remains favorable, but presents new elements of uncertainty and instability. On the other hand, a set of price pressures, apparently temporary, arises when domestic demand already expands vigorously. In such environment, the monetary authority must remain vigilant, so that short-term uncertainties do not contaminate longer time horizons.