1. IPCA inflation declined in March and reached 0.37%, down from 0.44% in the previous month and in January. As a consequence, inflation totaled 1.26% in the first quarter of the year, above the expectations that prevailed at the close of 2006, but below inflation registered in the same period last year (1.44%). The main driver of the quarterly IPCA inflation result was the behavior of regulated prices, which increased 0.59%, compared to 1.69% in the same period of 2006, while market prices increased 1.55% in the first quarter, up from 1.31% in the same quarter of 2006. Twelve-month trailing inflation through March reached 2.96%, compared to 5.32% in March 2006, for this result, market prices contributed 2.82%, whilst regulated prices accounted for 3.15% (compared to 3.90% and 8.66%, respectively, in March 2006). Month-on-month inflation deceleration in March was a result of market prices inflation decline (0.44%, down from 0.59%), in contrast with regulated prices inflation acceleration (0.21%, up from 0.12%). In March, it bears emphasizing the upward pressure of food and clothing. The prices of tradable goods increased 0.21% in March, up from –0.10% in February, while the prices of non-tradable goods increased 0.66% in March, compared to 1.23% in February. Services inflation reached 0.38% in the month and 5.09% in the last twelve months (costs of courses increased 4.62%, while other services increased 5.19%). Despite the recent inflation acceleration observed at the end of 2006 and the start of 2007, the most likely scenario is that inflation evolves according to the targets path. 
2. IPCA core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices also decreased month-on-month in March 0.23%, down from 0.52% in February, in line with the headline IPCA inflation decline. On the other hand, the other underlying core inflation measures calculated by the BCB slightly increased: smoothed trimmed means core increased 0.29% in March, up from 0.24% in February and continued to record the strongest rigidity among the three core measures, while the non-smoothed trimmed means core increased 0.24%, up from 0.22%. In the first quarter, core inflation by exclusion recorded 1.16%, the lowest level since 2002, while smoothed and non-smoothed trimmed means core measures totaled 0.92% and 0.81%, respectively, record lows for the series. This behavior is also present on the twelve-month trailing basis through March, when cores reached 2.59%, 3.97% and 2.23%, respectively. 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) inflation remained virtually unchanged on a month-on-month basis in March (0.22% compared to 0.23 in February). Leading indicators, such as the IGP-10, suggest that the stability should continue. In the first quarter, the index increased by 0.88%, up from 0.21% in the same period last year. In the twelve months through March, it reached 4.49%, up from 3.79% in February. This behavior was driven, among other factors, by the recovery of agricultural prices, which presented monthly deflation results last year. Among the IGP-DI components, the IPC-Br increased by 0.48% in March, up from 0.34% in February, while the INCC-DI increased 0.27%, up from 0.21%. On the other hand, the Wholesale Price Index (IPA-DI) inflation increased 0.11% in March, down from 0.19% in February. The decline in IPA-DI inflation was due to agricultural prices deflation, which recorded –0.18%, after increasing 1.07% and 1.08%, respectively in January and February. As highlighted in previous Copom Minutes, the effects of wholesale prices over consumer inflation will depend on prospective demand conditions and price-setters’ expectations for the future inflation path. 
4. After the last Copom meeting, the IBGE released new GDP figures, as a result of the implementation of comprehensive methodological revision. The new data showed significant adjustments in the GDP level (roughly 11% increase) and in growth rates, with the last five-year average rate increasing to 3.2%, up from 2.5% and, in 2006, to 3.7%, up from 2.9%. Among other important changes, there was a substantial decline in the investment rate. The new set of data also suggests that the economy, at least recently, could be using the factors of production in a more efficient way. Another important change was the expansion of services in the GDP composition, which suggests that the Brazilian economy profile is closer to those of other important economies. According to the new 2006 GDP data, on the supply side, agriculture grew 4.1%, as against 3.2% previously released, and services increased by 3.7%, as against 2.4%, while industrial growth declined, recording 2.8%, as against 3.0%. On the demand side, there were increases in gross fixed capital formation (8.7%, as against 6.3%), household consumption (4.3%, as against 3.8%) and in government consumption (3.6%, as against 2.1%), while exports growth declined (4.6%, as against 5.0%) and imports expansion was kept unchanged (18.1%). Moreover, according to IBGE seasonally adjusted data for 2006, Q4 GDP increased 0.9% quarter-on-quarter, slightly below the 1.1% rate previously released, while Q3 GDP increased 2.6%, well above the 0.8% rate previously released, in line with the analysis of previous Copom Minutes. 
5. After expanding in the three last months of 2006 and declining in January, industrial production resumed growth in February, increasing by 0.3% month-on-month, with manufacturing industry and mining expanding by 0.6% and 0.3%, respectively, according to IBGE seasonally adjusted data. Compared to February 2006, industrial production increased by 3.0%, the eight consecutive month of aggregate industrial production expansion. In the last twelve months, industrial production expanded by 2.8%, with 2.6% for manufacturing industry and 6.2% for mining. On a three-month moving average basis, industrial output grew by the eleventh consecutive month in February. The expansion of manufacturing industry in February reached 14 out of 23 activities with seasonally adjusted data. For March, leading and coincident indicators suggest the continuity of the ongoing expansion. The several incentive factors to economic activity, including the monetary easing already implemented, suggest that the expanding trend in industry shall continue in the upcoming months. 
6. Disaggregated industrial data showed month-on-month seasonally adjusted expansion of 1.2% in durable consumer goods production in February. Compared to the same month last year, capital goods production strongly expanded by 14.3%, while intermediate goods production increased by 3.5%. According to the same comparison basis, durable goods production contracted by 2.9%. In the first two months of the year, capital goods production outperformed, expanding by 16.0%, and the pace of intermediate goods production accelerated, increasing by 3.3%. The dynamics of capital goods production reflects positive prospects for the growth of domestic demand and the influence of favorable international prices in several sectors. In addition, the expansion of intermediate goods production suggests a more generalized acceleration in industrial activity. 
7. After declining between August and December last year, reaching 8.4%, the unemployment rate reached 9.3% in January and 9.9% in February, in line with the seasonal pattern at the start of the year. However, compared to the same month last year, unemployment showed stability. The number of workers grew 2.5% in the twelve months through February, indicating robust pace of job creation. The purchasing power of workers increased 2.5% month-on-month and 6.1% compared to the same month last year. This dynamics is also present in real payrolls, which increased 8.8% in February (8.1% in the year), compared to February 2006, maintaining the upward trend and sustaining the growth of aggregate demand. According to the National Industry Confederation (CNI) data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, manufacturing employment increased month-on-month 0.2% in February, the fifteenth consecutive monthly expansion. Compared to February 2006, manufacturing industry increased by 3.3%. Regarding formal employment, data from the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) confirms the continuity of expansion in February, with the creation of 148 thousand jobs, a 0.4% expansion on a month-on-month seasonally adjusted basis. In the first two months of the year, formal job creation grew 4.7%, and 4.8% in the last twelve months. 
8. After the slight 0.1% decline in December, which interrupted a four-consecutive-month expansion period, retail sales strongly increased in the first two months of the year, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE. Retail sales expanded month-on-month 1.9% and 0.4% in January and February, respectively. When compared to the same months last year, retail sales expanded robustly: 8.5% in January and 9.4% in February. Still under this comparison basis, both months reached record highs for the series begun in January 2000. In the year through February, retail sales expanded significantly by 8.9%, compared to the same period last year, a record high for this period since the start of the series. In addition to the strong expansion of sales more linked to credit, it bears emphasizing the positive performance of items more sensitive to income and employment. For instance, hyper- and supermarket sales expanded by 6.8% in the first two months of the year. Expanded retail sales, which include the sales of civil construction material and vehicles, motorcycles, parts and pieces, increased 11.0% in the first two months of the year, compared to the same period of 2006. For the rest of the year, it is expected the continuity of retail sales expansion, boosted by the increase in employment and income, credit expansion, the monetary easing process and by the recovery of consumer confidence. 
9. Installed capacity utilization in the manufacturing industry reached 81.8% in February, 1.3 p.p. above that observed in the same month of 2006, according to the new series released by CNI and seasonally adjusted by the BCB. Compared to the same month last year, the February result reached the seventh consecutive monthly expansion. This rate was 0.56 p.p. below the record high of the new series, observed in July 2004 (this difference totaled 0.62 p.p. in January). Disaggregated indicators compiled by the FGV signaled a record in the capacity utilization of capital goods in March. The higher average capacity utilization recently observed reflects the intensification of economic activity. Moreover, data regarding investment, such as the 21.2% increase in the absorption of capital goods in the first two months of the year, suggest a robust ongoing expansion of capacity, sustained by both imports and capital goods production. The production of inputs for civil construction also increased, despite at a lower pace, and expanded by 1.8% in the first two months. Therefore, relevant imbalances between aggregate supply and demand are not anticipated yet. However, as stressed in previous Copom Minutes, the inflation trajectory is closely linked to current and prospective developments with regard to the expansion of supply of goods and services to adequately meet demand conditions. 
10. Trade balance continues to record robust results at the start of 2007, confirming analysis expressed in previous Copom Minutes about important structural changes in the Brazilian external trade. In the first quarter, the trade surplus reached US$ 8.7 billion, 6.0% lower than that observed in the same period last year. This cooling was expected, and was due to US$ 33.9 billion exports and US$ 25.2 billion imports in the period, 15.4% and 25.3% higher than the amounts recorded in the first quarter of 2006. Despite robust, lower trade surpluses are a natural consequence of both higher activity level and strengthened BRL, showing a healthy process of external adjustment The current account surplus stood at US$ 1.7 billion in the first quarter, totaling US$ 13.3 billion in the twelve months through March, or 1.2% of GDP. 
11. With regard to the international scenario, uncertainties surrounding the monetary policy stance in the US persist. Although additional interest rate increases cannot be discarded, the consensus points to the fact that an easing monetary policy cycle could start this year. Similarly, the possibility of a stronger-than-expected deceleration in the US economy cannot be discarded, and likewise, its effects on the global economy. On the other hand, Brazilian economy and asset prices have been showing significant resilience against swings in international financial markets, due to better fundamentals in recent years, and favorable exports prices. In addition to showing resilience to market oscillations, the Brazilian economy trails a growth cycle with price stability. Therefore, the Copom continues to consider that international financial market conditions are favorable. 
12. Oil prices, another systematic source of international uncertainties, still present high volatility, with a slight increase since the last Copom meeting, reflecting, among other factors, geopolitical tensions. Despite the uncertainties surrounding the future oil prices trajectory, the main scenario considered by the Copom, which attributes no change to domestic gasoline prices in 2007, continues plausible. 
13. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations utilized the following assumptions: 
a) Compared to the values considered in the March Copom meeting, the projection for gasoline and bottled gas prices adjustments in 2007 were both maintained at 0%, 
b) Considering the same comparison basis, the projection for fixed telephone price adjustments in 2007 decreased to 3.4% from 3.9%, while the projection for household electricity price adjustments decreased to 2.2% from 3.3%, 
c) The projection for regulated prices inflation in 2007 decreased to 4.2% from 4.5% (projection of the March Copom Meeting). These items, according to the weights released by the IBGE, represented 30.99% of the total March IPCA, 
d) The projection for regulated prices inflation in 2008 decreased to 5.2% from 5.6%. This projection is based on the endogenous determination model for regulated prices. This model considers the effects of seasonal components, exchange rate change, market prices inflation and the General Price Index (IGP), 
e) The projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, using a Vector Autoregressive model based on the Selic and 180-day swap rates on the eve of the meeting, stood at 38 b.p. in the fourth quarter of 2007, reaching 71 b.p. in the last quarter of 2008. 
14. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the consolidated public sector primary surplus target of 3.8% of GDP in 2007 and 2008 will be achieved, adjusted by the possibility of a 0.45 p.p. reduction in this percentage due to the implementation of PPI (Investment Pilot Program). The related assumptions considered in the previous meeting were maintained.
15. Since the March Copom meeting, median IPCA inflation expectations for 2007, compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations Group (Gerin), decreased to 3.80% from 3.88%. This reduction was mainly driven by lower estimates for Q2 and Q3 inflation. Twelve-month ahead inflation expectations decreased to 3.64% down from 3.80%. For 2008, inflation expectations remained at 4%. As mentioned in previous Minutes, these developments suggest the consolidation of a more favorable long-term macroeconomic scenario. 
16. The 2007 inflation forecast under the benchmark scenario – which assumes the maintenance of the Selic rate at 12.75% and the exchange rate at R$2.05/US$ during the forecast period –slightly increased compared to the values considered at the March Copom meeting, remaining below the 4.5% target established by the CMN for the year. The forecast based on the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin on the eve of the Copom meeting – slightly decreased relative to the values considered in the March Copom meeting, remaining below the central target for the year. The projection for 2008 inflation slightly reduced in relation to the March projection, remaining below the 4.5% target in the benchmark scenario and above the 4.5% target in the market scenario. 
17. The Copom reaffirms the view expressed in previous Minutes, that in addition to containing short-term inflationary pressures, monetary policy has also contributed significantly for the consolidation of a favorable long-term macroeconomic environment. Economic activity data still do not suggest high probability of important pressures over inflation in the short-run. Imports expansion has contributed significantly to this process, complementing domestic production and, therefore, limiting potential inflationary effects of aggregated demand sustained growth. Moreover, despite the prospects of lower liquidity in international markets, due to the interest rates increase in industrialized economies, and the volatility increase in the global markets, the external outlook remains favorable. Particularly regarding Brazilian external financing, the Copom continues to assign low probability to a significant deterioration in international financial market conditions. Therefore, the prospects for the inflation trajectory remain benign. As in recent meetings, the Copom emphasizes that the main challenge of the monetary policy in this context is to guarantee the consolidation of positive developments anticipated for the future. 
18. The Copom evaluates that the relatively high inflation monthly rates, which have persisted since the end of 2006, do not represent yet a risk to the medium-term inflation trajectory. Part of the inflation increase at the start of the year is due to one-off factors, such as the elevation of food prices, and seasonal components, such as tuition fees readjustments, in addition to certain pressures over services prices. Due to the nature of such pressures, they are expected to dampen throughout time, without necessarily affecting longer-time horizons. However, the Copom will continue to manage the monetary policy stance so that the gains obtained in inflation control in recent years become permanent. In this respect, the Copom will carefully monitor the evolution of inflation and the several core inflation measures in the upcoming months, discriminating between one-off and persistent or generalized price increases, and promptly adjusting the monetary policy stance to the circumstances. 
19. The preservation of inflation rates in line with the targets path and the consolidation of a long-lasting stable macroeconomic scenario will contribute to the progressive reduction of macroeconomic risk perception underway. The scope for a reduction in real interest rates in the future will naturally follow as a consequence of this improved perception. The Copom evaluates that its cautious monetary policy stance has been critical to increasing the probability of inflation convergence to the targets path. For this to materialize, however, it is important that forward-looking inflation indicators remain consistent with the recent benign inflation outlook observed in the last quarters. 
20. The Copom emphasizes, once again, that there are important time lags in the transmission of monetary policy stance to economic activity and inflation. Since the beginning of the monetary easing cycle, in September 2005, the Selic rate has already been reduced by 700 b.p., with the bulk of the reduction concentrated in the last nine months. Consequently, the activity level has not completely mirrored the effects of the interest rates cuts, as well as the effects of the economic activity resumption on inflation have not completely materialized. Therefore, the evaluation of alternative monetary policy stances should necessarily focus on the prospective inflation scenario and its risks, instead of current inflation indicators.
21. During the coming months, employment and income expansions and credit growth will continue to bolster economic activity. As mentioned in recent Copom Minutes, activity level should also reflect the effects of governmental transfers and other fiscal impulses occurred in 2006 and expected for the next quarters of the year. Consequently, the lagged effects of interest rates cuts on an increasingly robust aggregate demand will add up to other factors that will continue to contribute to this expansion. These issues become even more relevant considering the signs of heated aggregate demand, short-term inflation pressures, and the fact that the monetary policy decisions should have concentrated effects in the last months of 2007 and, progressively, in 2008. 
22. In light of the existing incentives for expanding aggregate demand, the uncertainties surrounding the monetary policy transmission mechanisms, the lower distance between the current Selic rate and the medium-term equilibrium interest rates, and the interest rate cuts implemented since September 2005, the Copom members understood that the preservation of important achievements in disinflation and in preserving economic growth, with job creation and rising real income, demands a more cautious monetary easing stance. 
23. Even in this context, Copom participants believe that there are several signs showing that the imports contribution to the consolidation of a benign scenario for inflation, through the limits exerted on tradable prices in a robust aggregate demand environment, may be stronger than initially thought. As a result, during the decision process regarding the monetary easing pace, three members of the Committee understood that the balance of risks to the evolution of the future inflation trajectory, considering the perspectives for both market and regulated prices, would justify a 50 b.p. reduction in the Selic target rate. 
24. However, the majority of the Committee maintained the assessment that, considering the extension of the easing process already implemented, the remaining uncertainties regarding the lagged impacts of the monetary easing, the expected behavior of the other sustaining factors of expenditure, such as income growth, in a scenario of solid expansion of the domestic demand for tradable and non-tradable goods and services, and of economic activity strengthening, continued to recommend the maintenance of the 25 b.p. reduction pace in the Selic target rate. 
25. Given the reasons stated above, the Copom decided to continue the monetary easing cycle, started in the September 2005 meeting, and reduced the Selic target rate to 12.50% p.a., without bias. Four votes were for the Copom monetary policy action, while three votes were in favor of reducing the Selic target by 50 basis points. 
26. Under an inflation-targeting regime, the monetary authority decides according to inflation prospects, analyzing alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine price dynamics and the balance of risks associated to the forecasts. Although uncertainties regarding the US economic performance persist, the international scenario remains favorable, contributing to a positive domestic inflation outlook. On the other hand, price pressures, apparently punctual and temporary, hit the economy at a moment when domestic demand already expands vigorously, sustaining the economic activity recovery, including sectors little exposed to external competition, when the effects of important incentive factors, such as the monetary easing already implemented, have not completely materialized. In such environment, the monetary authority must remain vigilant, so that short-term uncertainties do not contaminate longer time horizons. 