1. IPCA inflation totaled 0.28% in June, the same rate recorded in May, as regulated prices deceleration offset market prices acceleration. As a consequence, average monthly inflation recorded 0.27% in the second quarter of the year, down from 0.42% in the first quarter. On the other hand, IPCA inflation totaled 2.08% in the year through June, down from 1.54% in the same period last year, with market prices recording 2.43%, and regulated prices, 1.29%, compared to 0.92% and 2.76%, respectively, in the same period last year. Twelve-month trailing inflation has steadily accelerated, totaling 3.69% in June, up from 3.18% in May, 3% in April and 2.96% in March. This acceleration was due to the substitution of more elevated inflation rates observed in the last months (0.27% monthly average) for reduced inflation rates observed in the second quarter of 2006 (0.03% monthly average). Since May, market prices inflation has exceeded regulated prices inflation on a twelve-month basis, interrupting a trend observed for a long time. In June, these indicators reached 4.10% and 2.78%, respectively, according to the same basis. Disaggregated data show that non-tradable prices have driven market prices inflation, with twelve-month figure through June reaching 5.02%, while tradable prices inflation stood at 3.14%. This fact occurred, despite significant deceleration in services inflation, totaling 4.95% in the twelve months through June, down from 6.27% observed in the same period of last year. Notwithstanding the inflationary acceleration in the first half of the year, compared to the same period of 2006, the Copom considers that inflation should continue to evolve according to the targets path. 
2. IPCA core inflation measures did not reflect, in general, the declining headline inflation behavior in the second quarter. Only one out of the three core inflation measures calculated by the BCB decreased, quarter-on-quarter. Core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices averaged 0.28% in the second quarter, down from 0.39% in the first quarter of the year. On the other hand, smoothed trimmed means and non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation measures remained stable, averaging 0.31% and 0.27%, respectively. In the first half of year, significant reductions are emphasized, when compared to the same period of 2006. Core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices reached 2.03%, down from 2.15%, smoothed trimmed means core inflation totaled 1.86%, down from 2.75%, while non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation increased 1.63%, down from 1.84%. Al three core measures stood below the 2.08% headline inflation in the first half of the year. In the last twelve months through June, compared to the same period of last year, all inflation core measures showed significant drops: core inflation by exclusion increased 3.43%, down from 4.09%, smoothed trimmed means core totaled 3.72%, down from 5.71%, and non-smoothed trimmed means core reached 2.55%, down from 4.16%. Still on a twelve-month trailing basis, all three core inflation measures increased, compared to the rates observed in May, but stood below the 4.5% central target for 2007. 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) inflation accelerated in the second quarter and reached 0.26% in June, up from 0.16% in May and 0.14% in April. In the first half of the year, inflation reached 1.44%, up from 1.28% in the same period of last year. This move was driven by the behavior of the Consumer Price Index-Brazil (IPC-Br), which increased 2.51%, up from 0.62% in the same period of 2006, while the Civil Construction National Index (INCC) remained virtually unchanged (3.51%, up from 3.36%), and the IPA-DI totaled 0.70% in 2007, down from 1.22% in 2006. In the last twelve months through June, the IGP-DI increased 3.96%, up from 0.98% in June 2006. Throughout the second quarter, the IPA-DI remained stable, reflecting the increase in industrial prices and a heterogeneous behavior of agricultural prices, which fell sharply from April through May, and recovered in June. The behavior of wholesale price inflation continues to mirror, in short, contradictory pressures stemming from, on the one hand, the elevation of international prices of commodities and foodstuff and, on the other hand, the strengthening of the BRL. As highlighted in previous Copom Minutes, the effects of wholesale prices over consumer inflation will depend on current and prospective demand conditions and price-setters’ expectations for the future inflation path. 
4. General industrial output, which encompasses extractivism and manufacturing industries, accelerated in the last months. On a three-month moving average basis, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, industrial output grew 0.8% in May, up from 0.6% in April. Considering the reviewed figures for April, general industrial output recorded the eighth consecutive monthly expansion in May. Industrial output grew 4.9% in May, compared to the same month last year, 4.4% in the year through June, and 3.3% in the last twelve months, with a trend of acceleration at the margin under the two last criteria. IBGE data indicate that manufacturing industry also outperforms. On a three-month moving average basis, the manufacturing industry output index increased by 0.4% in February, 0.5% in March, 0.7% in April and 0.8% in May. In the last twelve months through May, manufacturing industry expanded by 3.1%, while mining increased by 5.4%. Among use categories, capital goods production outperformed in the year through May, growing strongly by 16.3%. In addition, the production of intermediate goods increased by 3.9% in the same period, after growing below the average of general industrial output in the period 2005-2006. For June, the leading and coincident indicators available for industrial production suggest the continuity of the growth cycle. Moreover, the several incentive factors to economic activity, including the monetary easing already implemented, suggest that the expanding trend in industry shall continue in the upcoming quarters. 
5. The unemployment rate in the six main metropolitan regions stood at 10.1% in May for the third consecutive month, 0.1 p.p. below the May 2006 result. In the year through May, the average unemployment rate reduced by 0.2 p.p., compared to the same period last year. Despite the slow decline in the unemployment rate, the number of employed workers increased 2.7% in the last twelve months through May, due to the growth of the economically active population (PEA), a process usually present in moments of economic expansion. The purchasing power of employed workers increased month-on-month 0.3% in May, unchanged relative to the previous month, and 3.9% relative to May 2006. In the year through May, it reached 4.8%, which contributed for the 7.8% expansion of real payrolls. According to the National Industry Confederation (CNI) data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, manufacturing employment increased month-on-month 0.4% in May and 3.5% compared to May 2006. Consequently, in the year through May, manufacturing employment robustly grew 4.1%. Regarding formal employment, data from the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) confirm the continuity of strong expansion, with the creation of 182 thousand new jobs, a record high for the month of June, since the start of the series in 1985. Job creation grew month-on-month seasonally adjusted 0.4%, expanding by 4.9% in the year through June and 4.8% in the last twelve months. Therefore, 1,095.5 thousand jobs were created in the first half of the year, up from 924 thousand jobs in the same period of last year (a 18.6% growth), and 1.4 million in the last twelve months. The Copom considers that positive developments in the labor market will continue to be an important support channel to aggregate demand in the upcoming quarters. 
6. Retail sales increased 0.5% month-on-month in May, the fifth consecutive expansion, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE. In the quarter ended in May, relative to the same period of last year, retail sales recorded 9.9% real growth, compared to 9.4% in the quarter ended in April, while expanded retail sales, which include the sales of civil construction material and vehicles, motorcycles, parts and pieces, increased 13.7%, up from 13.4% in April. In May, retail sales increased by 10.4%, compared to the same month of 2006, for a 9.5% expansion in the year through May. In the last twelve months, expansion reached significant 7.5% and has accelerated at the margin. Compared to May 2006, “furniture and domestic appliances” sales grew 10.3%, while “fabric, clothing and shoes” grew by 16%. The steady performance of retail sales reflects both the expansion of income and employment and the improvement of consumer credit conditions. Expanded retail sales recorded 13% real growth in May, compared to the same month of 2006, the eleventh consecutive month that expanded retail sales exceeded retail sales. For the rest of the year, it is expected the continuity of retail sales expansion, boosted by the increase in employment and income (including through governmental transfers), credit expansion, the monetary easing process and by the recovery of consumer confidence. Moreover, the performance of retail sales suggests the continuity and likely strengthening of aggregate demand growth. 
7. According to CNI data without seasonal adjustment, installed capacity utilization in the manufacturing industry averaged 81.5% in the first five months of 2007, compared to 79.5%, 80.4% and 79.8% in the same period of 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The installed capacity utilization rate, according to CNI data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, stood at 82.7% in May, 0.7 p.p. above that observed in April, reaching a new record high for the series. Installed capacity utilization not only has grown significantly, but there are signs that the process has become more generalized, with many sectors operating close to their maximum rates. Data compiled by the FGV also show an upward trend for the utilization rates, which reached 84.7% in June, up from 82.3% in June 2006. Such increase reflects, unmistakably, economic activity acceleration, despite the strong expansion of investment. In fact, the absorption of capital goods in the year through May grew 16.1%, in line with the significant increase in capital goods imports (30.7% in volume), as well as in capital goods production (16.3%). Moreover, in the same period, the production of civil construction inputs increased 3.7%. The most recent data indicate that, despite quite robust, investment has not been sufficient to avoid a significant elevation of the capacity utilization rates in industry. This situation may reflect lags in the maturing of projects aimed at expanding the installed capacity or higher-than-expected strengthening in economic activity. In this context, the expansion of investment will be fundamental to avoid sharp mismatches regarding the evolution of aggregate supply and demand. As stressed in previous Copom Minutes, the inflation trajectory is closely linked to current and prospective developments with regard to the expansion of supply of goods and services to adequately meet demand conditions. 
8. The trade balance continues to present robust performance, despite the strengthening of the BRL, confirming the evaluations based upon Inflation Reports and previous Copom Minutes that depict important structural changes in the Brazilian foreign trade. After reaching in 2006 a US$ 46.5 billion record high, a 3.4% increase over the 2005 result, the trade balance continues to register strong positive performance. In the year through June, the trade surplus reached US$20.6 billion, a 6.2% increase relative to the same period of 2006. Exports rose 20.2%, to US$73.2 billion, while imports increased 26.7%, to US$52.6 billion. Imports have been growing more rapidly than exports at the margin, due not only to higher level of economic activity, but also to the strengthening of the BRL, which points to a healthy adjustment process of the trade balance. Moreover, the Copom assesses that the demand for Brazilian exports has shown more intense than firstly anticipated, even resulting in acceleration, at the margin, of the quantum exported. Therefore, similarly to the observed in previous years, the most pessimistic expectations will be frustrated again in 2007, with the trade balance keeping a very positive performance. 
9. With regard to the international scenario, uncertainties surrounding the monetary policy stance in the US persist. The prevailing opinion among international investors is that the start of an easing cycle this year seems to be postponed to the next year, meaning that the Fed Funds rate would be kept stable for many months ahead. However, interest rate increases in the US cannot be completely discarded. Similarly, the possibility of stronger-than-expected economic deceleration in the US cannot be ignored, especially if the effects of the present difficulties in the real state sector over the financial institutions and the household consumption increase in intensity and scope. On the other hand, the strengthening of economic activity in Europe and the continuity of robust expansion in the major Asian countries have underpinned world growth at higher-than-expected levels, despite the economic deceleration in the US. The maintenance of growth rates at historically high levels in many regions of the world has led to inflationary pressures, especially over raw materials and food prices, to which a significant number of central banks have answered by using monetary policy instruments. However, external demand for Brazilian goods, services and financial assets has, so far, remarkably benefited from the stage of the economic cycle and the global financial conditions. That demand also shows resilience to short-term fluctuations in both economic activity and international market sentiment. This external scenario, which the Copom continues to consider favorable, has helped the Brazilian economy to trail a growth cycle with price stability. 
10. Oil prices, another external source of international uncertainty, rose since the last Copom meeting and still presents high volatility. On one hand, this behavior reflects structural shifts in global demand for energy and, on the other hand, recurrent episodes of geopolitical tensions. According to this perspective, if the trend observed in the last weeks persists, the main scenario considered by the Copom, which attributes no change to domestic gasoline prices in 2007, might become less plausible. Moreover, despite the eventual stability in domestic gasoline prices, international oil prices swings inexorably affect the domestic economy, for instance, through productive chains, such as the petrochemical, as well as through the impact over market inflation expectations. 
11. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations utilized the following assumptions: 
a) Compared to the values considered in the June Copom meeting, the projection for gasoline and bottled gas prices adjustments in 2007 were both maintained at 0%, 
b) The projection for electricity price adjustments in 2007 was modified to –3.6%. The projection for fixed telephone price adjustment was maintained at 3.3%, 
c) The projection for regulated prices inflation in 2007 decreased to 3.2%, down from 3.6% (projection of the June Copom meeting). These items, according to the weights released by the IBGE, represent 31.01% of the total June IPCA, 
d) The projection for regulated prices inflation in 2008 was also changed, to 4.5%. This projection is based on the endogenous determination model for regulated prices. This model considers the effects of seasonal components, exchange rate change, market prices inflation and the IGP, 
e) The projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, using a Vector Autoregressive model based on the Selic and 180-day swap rates on the eve of the meeting, estimates a -5 bps in the fourth quarter of 2007, reaching 71 bps in the last quarter of 2008. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. 
12. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the consolidated public sector primary surplus target of 3.8% of GDP in 2007 and 2008 will be achieved, adjusted by the possibility of a 0.45 p.p. reduction in this percentage due to the implementation of the PPI (Investment Pilot Program). The related assumptions considered in the previous meeting were maintained. 
13. Since the June Copom meeting, median IPCA inflation expectations for 2007, compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations Group (Gerin), increased to 3.7% from 3.5%. This growth was mainly driven by the addition of the inflation occurred in May and June. Twelve-month ahead inflation expectations reached 3.5%, up from 3.37%. For 2008, inflation expectations remained at 4%. These developments continue to suggest the consolidation of a favorable macroeconomic scenario. 
14. Considering the hypotheses under the benchmark scenario – which assumes the maintenance of the Selic rate at 12% and the exchange rate at R$1.90/US$ during the forecast period – the projection for the 2007 IPCA increased compared to the value considered at the June Copom meeting, but remained below the 4.5% target established by the CMN for the year. The forecast based on the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin on the eve of the Copom meeting – IPCA inflation forecast for 2007 also increased compared to the value considered at the June Copom meeting, but remains below the central target for the year. On the other hand, the projections for 2008, based on both the benchmark and the market scenarios, reduced in relation to June, remaining below the 4.5% target. 
15. The Copom reaffirms the view expressed in previous Minutes, that in addition to containing short-term inflationary pressures, monetary policy has also contributed significantly for the consolidation of a favorable long-term macroeconomic environment. Economic activity data point to a strengthening of possibly more intense demand expansion, but still do not suggest high probability of important pressures over inflation in the short-run. In addition to investment expansion, imports growth has remarkably contributed to this process, complementing domestic production and, therefore, limiting potential inflationary effects of aggregate demand sustained growth. Moreover, despite uncertainties regarding the continuity of the strong growth recently observed in the international economy, prospects of additional monetary tightening in important international markets, and volatility increase in global markets, the external outlook remains favorable. Particularly regarding Brazilian external financing, the combination of significant trade surpluses and increasing capital inflows suggests that the balance of payments will continue to perform robustly. Therefore, the prospects for the inflation trajectory remain benign. As in recent meetings, the Copom emphasizes that the main challenge of the monetary policy in this context is to guarantee the consolidation of positive developments anticipated for the future. 
16. The Copom evaluates that the increase in global inflationary pressures still does not represent risks to short-term domestic inflation trajectory, but a heated demand could increase the pass-through of wholesale prices pressures to consumer price inflation. The Copom also observes that the increase of IPCA inflation expectations for 2007 and for the twelve months ahead, despite to levels below the targets established for 2007 and 2008, is a process that must be monitored. In this sense, the Copom will continue to manage the monetary policy stance so that the gains obtained in inflation control in recent years become permanent. In this respect, the Copom will carefully monitor the evolution of inflation and the several core inflation measures, discriminating between one-off and persistent or generalized price increases, analyzing the impacts over short- and medium-term inflation expectations, and promptly adjusting the monetary policy stance to the circumstances. 
17. The preservation of inflation rates in line with the targets path and the consolidation of a long-lasting stable macroeconomic scenario will contribute to the progressive reduction of macroeconomic risk perception underway. The scope for a reduction in real interest rates in the future will naturally follow as a consequence of this improved perception. The Copom evaluates that its cautious monetary policy stance has been critical to increase the probability of inflation convergence to the targets path. For this to materialize, however, it is important that forward-looking inflation indicators remain consistent with the recent benign inflation outlook observed in the last quarters. 
18. The Copom emphasizes, once again, that there are important time lags in the transmission of monetary policy stance to economic activity and inflation. Since the beginning of the monetary easing cycle, in September 2005, the Selic rate has already been reduced by 775 b.p., with the bulk of the reduction concentrated in the last nine months. Consequently, the activity level has not completely mirrored the effects of the interest rates cuts yet, as well as the effects of the economic activity on inflation have not completely materialized. Therefore, the evaluation of alternative monetary policy stances should necessarily focus on the prospective inflation scenario and its risks, instead of current inflation indicators. 
19. During the coming months, employment and income expansions and credit growth will continue to bolster economic activity. As mentioned in recent Copom Minutes, activity level should also reflect the effects of governmental transfers and other fiscal impulses occurred in the first half of 2007 and expected for the next quarters of the year. Consequently, the lagged effects of interest rates cuts on an increasingly robust aggregate demand will add up to other factors that will continue to contribute to this expansion. These issues become even more relevant considering the signs of heated aggregate demand, and the fact that the monetary policy decisions will have limited effects in 2007 and predominant impacts in 2008. 
20. In light of the existing incentives for expanding aggregate demand, the uncertainties surrounding the monetary policy transmission mechanisms, the lower distance between the current Selic rate and the medium-term equilibrium interest rates, and the interest rate cuts implemented since September 2005, the Copom members understood that the preservation of important achievements in disinflation and in preserving economic growth, with job creation and rising real income, will demand, at some moment, a more cautious monetary easing stance. 
21. The Copom evaluated that, since the last meeting, influences of domestic and external factors over the balance of risks for the expected inflation trajectory have continued to perform in opposite directions. The external sector, acting importantly to increase aggregate supply, continues to influence inflation prospects in a predominantly benign way. On the other hand, expansion of domestic demand may increase the risks to inflation dynamics in the medium-term. 
22. Some participants of the Committee understood that, considering the extension of the easing process already implemented, the remaining uncertainties regarding the lagged impacts of the monetary easing, the expected behavior of the other sustaining factors of expenditure, such as income growth, in a scenario of solid expansion of domestic demand for tradable and non-tradable goods and services, and of economic activity strengthening, deceleration in the reduction pace of the Selic target rate to 25 b.p. would contribute to extend the easing process over time. 
23. However, the majority of the Committee argued that the contribution of the external sector for the consolidation of a benign outlook for inflation, especially by controlling the prices of tradable goods and by increasing investments, in a heated demand environment, reduces the risks present in the prospective scenario for inflation. Such contribution is favoring the equilibrium between aggregate demand and domestic supply growth rates at a pace in line with monetary policy decisions, without compromising the convergence to the inflation targets trajectory. Therefore, four members of the Committee understood that the risk balance to the evolution of future inflation would justify a 50 b.p. reduction in the Selic target rate. 
24. Given the reasons stated above, evaluating the prospects for inflation, the Copom decided to reduce the Selic target rate to 11.50% p.a., without bias. Four votes were for the Copom monetary policy action, while three votes were in favor of reducing the Selic target by 25 basis points. The Copom will assess the evolution of the macroeconomic scenario until its next meeting, to define the next steps on its monetary policy stance. 
25. Under an inflation-targeting regime, the monetary authority decides according to inflation prospects, analyzing alternative scenarios for the main variables that determine price dynamics and its balance of risks. Despite the remaining uncertainties regarding the US economy, the international scenario remains favorable, and benefits the external sector contribution for the maintenance of a benign inflationary outlook. On the other hand, domestic demand expands vigorously, backing-up the economic activity recovery. This expansion encompasses some sectors little exposed to external competition, when the effects of important incentive factors, such as the monetary easing already implemented, are still not fully perceived. In such environment, the monetary authority must remain vigilant, so that short-term uncertainties do not contaminate longer time horizons. 