1. IPCA inflation increased 0.18% in September, after reaching 0.47% in August, up from 0.24% in July, totaling 2.99% in the first nine months of 2007, compared to 2.00% in the same period of last year. Twelve-month trailing inflation reached 4.15%, exceeding that of September 2006 (3.70%). The acceleration of consumer price inflation essentially mirrors the behavior of market prices, which have increased more rapidly than regulated prices in 2007, a reversal in the dynamics observed in the recent years. In fact, market prices and regulated prices increased 3.82% and 1.16% in the year through September, and 5.07% and 2.12% in the last twelve months. Despite the BRL appreciation in 2007, amongst market prices, the prices of tradable goods showed the sharpest acceleration. In the twelve months through September, tradable goods inflation totaled 4.92%, up from 0.78% observed in the same period of last year, whereas non-tradable goods inflation reached 5.20%, up from 4.36% in the same period of 2006. Notwithstanding the recent occurrence of inflation developments less benign than previously anticipated, price dynamics still indicates that inflation should continue to evolve according to the targets path. 
2. The recent dynamics of IPCA core inflation measures has been in line with headline inflation. The core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices elevated in August (0.35%, against 0.08% in July), but decelerated in September (0.25%). Similarly, smoothed and non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation measures increased in August (0.40% and 0.43%, against 0.20% and 0.17% in July, respectively) and decelerated in September (0.34% and 0.19%, respectively). Nevertheless, core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices shows stability in the year through September (2.70%, against 2.67% in 2006), and in the last twelve months as well (3.60% against 3.65% in 2006). On its turn, smoothed trimmed means core inflation decelerated both year-to-date and on a twelve-month trailing basis (2.81% against 3.62%, and 3.82% against 5.21%, respectively). Finally, non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation increased year-to-date (2.44% against 2.18% in 2006), but retreated on a twelve-month trailing basis (3.03% against 3.53% in 2006). It is noteworthy that, in all cases, twelve-month inflation stood below the central target, but shows acceleration, which is relevant in the cases of the core inflation by exclusion and non-smoothed trimmed means core, relative to the record lows observed in previous months. 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) inflation accelerated in August (1.39%) and in September (1.17%) relative to the previous months. As a result, in the year through September, IGP-DI inflation increased 4.44%, up from 2.11% in the same period of last year. On a twelve-month trailing basis, inflation measured by IGP-DI totaled 6.16%, up from 3.16% in 2006. This increase reflects not only the behavior of the Consumer Price Index-Brazil (IPC-Br), which totaled 4.50% up from 2.51%, but also of the IPA-DI, whose variation totaled 6.92%, up from 3.13%. On its turn, despite at higher levels, inflation as measured by the Civil Construction National Index (INCC) showed stability in the last twelve months (5.05% against 5.09% in the same period of 2006). Regarding wholesale price inflation, it is relevant to highlight that agricultural prices strongly rallied, reaching 19.50% in the last twelve months, versus 1.98% in the same period of 2006. Conversely, industrial prices behaved positively in the period, recording 3.07%, down from 3.48% in September of last year, but significantly accelerated in the August-September period, compared to the previous two-month period, when had registered slight deflation. As highlighted in previous Copom Minutes, the effects of wholesale prices over consumer inflation will depend on current and prospective demand conditions and price-setters’ expectations for the future inflation path. 
4. On a three-month moving average basis, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, industrial output grew 0.7% in July and August, after increasing 0.9% in June, confirming the solid expansion of this sector. Still considering the seasonally adjusted series, after the 0.4% fall observed in July, the first decrease after nine consecutive positive figures, industrial output resumed growth, reaching 1.3% in August. This expansion suggests that the retreat in industrial output in July was punctual. Industrial output in August records a 6.5% robust growth in year-over-year terms, the thirteenth consecutive expansion under this basis. Therefore, industrial output grew 5.3% in year-to-date terms, and 4.5% on a twelve-month trailing basis, showing acceleration at the margin. Moreover, still considering the last twelve months through August, manufacturing industry production reached 4.4%, while mining industry production expanded by 6.2%. For September, the leading and coincident indicators available point to the continuity of the industrial production expansion cycle, which will be favored by the several stimulus factors that influence economic activity, including the monetary easing already implemented. 
5. Among the use categories, it bears emphasizing the strong monthly expansions of capital goods production and durable consumer goods production, which increased 4.0% and 2.7%, respectively, in August, on a month-on-month basis, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE. In year-to-date terms, the strong increases in capital goods production (17.6%) and durable consumer goods production (6.9%) should also be highlighted. The strength of durable consumer goods production reflects, predominantly, the remarkable improvement in credit conditions, when compared to historical patterns. The accelerated expansion of capital goods production is, to a large extent, due to the consolidation of positive prospects for the continuity of domestic demand growth, which has reflected both the improvement of income and the expansion of credit, underpinned by the perception of higher macroeconomic stability. Furthermore, it bears emphasizing the contribution of other specific factors, such as investment resumption in the agricultural and live stock sector. Compared to August 2006, the production of the majority of industrial sectors surveyed (22 out of 27) expanded in August, with highlights to the increase in the production of machinery and equipment (18.2%) and vehicles (17.5%). 
6. Labor market continues to present fairly positive developments. The unemployment rate in the six main metropolitan regions covered by the Monthly Labor Survey (PME) stood at 9.5% in August, unchanged month-on-month. However, the unemployment rate significantly decreased 1.1 p.p. in August, year-over-year, the seventh consecutive fall according to this comparison basis, so that in year-to-date terms it stood 0.5 p.p. below the observed in the same period of last year. The purchasing power of employed workers decreased month-on-month 0.5% in August, the third consecutive monthly fall. However, it increased 1.2% relative to the same month last year, and 3.8% in the first eight months of the year. As a consequence, real payrolls expanded by 6.8% in the year through August, compared to the same period of last year, a key driver for sustained aggregate demand growth. According to the National Industry Confederation (CNI) data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, manufacturing employment increased month-on-month 0.4% in August and 3.8% compared to August 2006. Regarding formal employment, data from the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) confirm the continuity of strong expansion. In September, job creation grew month-on-month seasonally adjusted 0.5%, expanding by 5.0% in the year through September and 4.9% in the last twelve months, with highlights to employment expansions in the construction industry (7.2%) and in the retail sector (6.0%). These figures corroborate the creation of 1.6 million formal jobs in the year through September and 1.5 million formal jobs in the last twelve months. 
7. In line with the positive developments in labor market, and with the expansion of credit, retail sales continue to record positive performance, indicating that the pace of domestic demand growth remains robust, and consistent signs of cooling cannot be perceived. In fact, retail sales increased 0.5% month-on-month in July, the seventh consecutive expansion, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE. In the first seven months of 2007, relative to the same period of last year, retail sales grew by 9.7%, and in the last twelve months, by 8.7%. Compared to the same month of 2006, retail sales increased by 9.2% in July. According to the same comparison basis, it bears emphasizing the expansion in the sales of furniture and domestic appliances (18.2%), and fabric, clothing and shoes (10.4%). These developments confirm the view expressed in previous Copom Minutes that both the expansion of income and the improvement of consumer credit conditions are crucially important to the strengthening of aggregate demand growth. In fact, expanded retail sales, which include the sales of construction material and vehicles, motorcycles, parts and pieces, grew by 13.3% in July, compared to the same month of 2006. For the next quarters, it is expected the strengthening of retail sales, further boosted by the increase in real payroll and credit and by the recovery of consumer confidence, which so far has not been affected by the higher volatility in financial markets. 
8. The installed capacity utilization rate in the manufacturing industry reached 83.6% in August, a record high for the series calculated by the CNI. The August result stood 1.7 p.p. above the rate observed in the same month of 2006, recording the thirteenth consecutive expansion under this basis. In the year through August, the average installed capacity utilization rate stood 1.8 p.p. above the observed in the same period of 2006 and 1.2 p.p. above the rate observed in the same period of 2005 and 2004. Such increase reflects, unmistakably, economic activity acceleration and occurs in several sectors, despite the strong expansion of investment. In fact, in the year through August, the absorption of capital goods grew 18.6%, and reflects the significant increase in capital goods imports (33.0% in volume), as well as in capital goods production (17.6%). Moreover, in the same period, the production of construction inputs increased 4.2%. The most recent data indicate that although investment has contributed to dampen the process of elevation of capacity utilization rates, it has not been sufficient to avoid its persistence at relatively high levels, which coincided, in the past, with periods of inflation acceleration. In light of the recent behavior of capacity utilization rates, the expansion of investment, as well as the timely maturity of projects, which may increase the productive capacity of economy, will be fundamental to avoid relevant mismatches regarding the evolution of aggregate supply and demand. As stressed in previous Copom Minutes, the inflation trajectory is closely linked to current and prospective developments with regard to the expansion of supply of goods and services to adequately meet demand conditions. 
9. The trade balance continues to present robust performance in 2007, despite the deceleration at the margin, confirming the evaluations reported in Inflation Reports and previous Copom Minutes about important structural changes in the Brazilian foreign trade. In the year through September, the trade surplus reached US$30.9 billion, a 9.6% decrease relative to the same period of 2006. Exports rose 15.5%, to US$116.6 billion, while imports increased 28.3%, to US$85.7 billion. As stressed in previous Copom Minutes, imports have been growing more rapidly than exports, due not only to the strengthening of the BRL, but also, and mainly, to the higher level of economic activity in the country. The current account surplus reached US$5.6 billion in the year through September and US$9.0 billion in the last twelve months, or 0.75% of GDP. 
10. Although the most intense effects of the crisis in the US subprime mortgages market over financial markets seem to have exhausted, uncertainties remain. On the one hand, several volatility and risk aversion indicators improved significantly since the last Copom meeting. On the other hand, neither has the situation in the interbank markets of the mature economies reached normality, nor have the developments of this crisis over real economy completely materialized. The magnitude of the crisis is not completely known – especially the effects over the US economic growth and, to a lesser extent, over the European economies. Notwithstanding the remaining difficulties in financial markets and the uncertainties regarding global economy developments, the recovery in risk appetite has been relatively fast, including that regarding Brazilian assets. In fact, the price behavior of Brazilian assets in the last episode of stress in international financial markets, similarly to the observed in February and in March this year, and in May and June 2006, evidences the consolidation of international investors confidence in the Brazilian economy. The main central banks reacted to the financial turbulence providing liquidity in the interbank market and, in the case of US, easing the monetary policy aiming at minimizing the risk that the impact of the real state sector over credit would lead to a more pronounced economic deceleration. On its turn, inflation expectations in the US (derived from financial assets) slightly increased in the last weeks, reacting to the weakening of the US dollar vis-à-vis the main currencies and to the upward trend in the prices of raw materials. In short, the long monetary tightening cycle comes to an end in the US, and the current debate seems to be centered in the duration and magnitude of additional reductions in the interest rates. In Europe and in the major Asian countries, economic activity continues to record robust expansions, despite the increase in the risk of deceleration, caused by the uncertainties regarding the US domestic macroeconomic scenario, the impact of difficulties of real state market over financial institutions and credit conditions in these regions. In this context, it bears emphasizing that the current vigor of emerging economies has importantly counterbalanced the economic deceleration in the US. The Brazilian economy, specifically, does not seem to have significantly been impacted by the recent turmoil, and should continue its growth trajectory, essentially sustained by domestic demand, in the upcoming quarters. 
11. Oil prices, a systematic source of international uncertainty, which remained at historically high levels in the last months, had important additional increase since the last Copom meeting. This behavior reflects not only structural shifts in global energy markets, but also geopolitical tensions, which recently intensified. Despite the significant uncertainties surrounding the expectations about the future trend for oil prices, the main scenario considered by the Copom, which attributes no change to domestic gasoline prices in 2007, remains plausible. The prices of other commodities have also presented high volatility in the last weeks, driven by the heightened uncertainty about the prospects for global growth and by the turmoil on global markets. Nevertheless, the main raw material price indices have presented an upward trend in the last weeks. In this context, the strong acceleration of food prices in several countries should be highlighted, which has made the control of inflation by several central banks a more difficult task. 
12. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations utilized the following assumptions: 
a) Compared to the values considered in the September Copom meeting, the projection for gasoline and bottled gas prices adjustments in 2007 were both maintained at 0%, 
b) The projections for electricity price adjustments in 2007 remained at –4.4%, the same considered in the September Copom meeting, while the projections for fixed telephone price adjustments for the same year were modified to 2.3%, down from 2.8%, c) The projection for regulated prices inflation in 2007 was modified to 2.9%, down from 3.2%, considered in the September Copom meeting. These items, according to the weights released by the IBGE, represent 30.66% of the total September IPCA, 
d) The projection for regulated prices inflation in 2008 was also maintained, at 4.5%. This projection is based on the endogenous determination model for regulated prices. This model considers the effects of seasonal components, exchange rate changes, market prices inflation and the IGP, 
e) The projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, using a Vector Autoregressive model based on the Selic and 180-day swap rates, estimates a -8 bps spread, under the benchmark scenario, in the fourth quarter of 2007, reaching 47 bps in the last quarter of 2008. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. 
13. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the consolidated public sector primary surplus target of 3.8% of GDP in 2007 and 2008 will be achieved, adjusted by the possibility of a 0.45 p.p. reduction in this percentage due to the implementation of the PPI (Investment Pilot Program). The related assumptions considered in the previous meeting were maintained. 
14. Since the September Copom meeting, median IPCA inflation expectations for 2007, compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations Group (Gerin), slightly decreased to 3.91%, down from 3.92%. This reduction was mainly driven by the addition of the September inflation result, below market expectations. Twelve-month ahead inflation expectations reached 3.83%, down from 3.87%, considering the composition of monthly inflation market expectations. For 2008, inflation expectations increased to 4.1%, up from 4.0% projected on the eve of the last Copom meeting. 
15. Considering the hypotheses under the benchmark scenario – which assumes the maintenance of the Selic rate at 11.25% and the exchange rate at R$1.80/US$ during the forecast period – the projection for the 2007 IPCA decreased compared to the value considered at the September Copom meeting, and remained below the 4.5% target established by the CMN for the year. According to the forecast based on the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin on the eve of the Copom meeting – IPCA inflation forecast for 2007 remained stable compared to the value considered at the September Copom meeting, and therefore, remain below the central target for the year. Both the projections for 2008 based on the benchmark scenario and on the market scenario decreased compared to the value considered at the September Copom meeting, and remain below the 4.5% target established for 2008. 
16. The Copom reaffirms the view expressed in previous Minutes, that in addition to containing short-term inflationary pressures, monetary policy has also contributed significantly for the consolidation of a favorable long-term macroeconomic environment. Economic activity data indicate that the pace of demand expansion remains robust, and may increase the probability of significant inflationary pressures on short-term inflation. Investment expansion and imports growth have contributed to retard this process, limiting potential inflationary effects stemming from aggregate demand sustained growth. Moreover, despite uncertainties regarding the continuity of strong growth in the international economy and the heightened volatility in global markets in the last months, the prospects for Brazilian external financing in the forecast period suggest, according to the information available until now, that the balance of payments should not present a risk to the inflation scenario. On the other hand, some recent evidences point to an intensification of the risks on the global inflation outlook, as suggested by the evolution of some raw materials prices. Therefore, although inflation prospects remain in line with the targets path, additional uncertainty surrounds this outlook. As in recent meetings, the Copom emphasizes that the main challenge of the monetary policy in this context is to guarantee the consolidation of positive developments anticipated for the future. 
17. The Copom evaluates that the probability that emerging local inflationary pressures will represent risks to domestic inflation trajectory has increased, because the heated demand can increase the pass-through of wholesale prices over consumer price inflation. Additionally, although the external sector can restrain the inflationary pressures in the tradable sector, the heated domestic demand can trigger inflationary pressures in the non-tradable sector. The Copom also observes that even though the upward movement of IPCA inflation expectations for 2008 has stabilized over the recent weeks at a level below the target established for 2008, this process must be carefully monitored. In this context, the Copom will continue to manage the monetary policy stance so that the gains obtained in inflation control in recent years become permanent. In this respect, the Copom will carefully monitor the evolution of inflation and the several core inflation measures, discriminating between one-off and persistent or generalized price increases, and promptly adjusting the monetary policy stance to the circumstances. 
18. The preservation of inflation rates in line with the targets path and the consolidation of a long-lasting stable macroeconomic scenario will contribute to the progressive reduction of macroeconomic risk perception underway. The scope for a reduction in real interest rates in the future will naturally follow, as a consequence of this improved perception. The Copom evaluates that the persistence of a cautious monetary policy stance has been critical to increase the probability that inflation will continue to evolve according to the targets path. For this to materialize, however, it is important that forward-looking inflation indicators, in particular the expected dynamic of aggregate supply and demand, remain consistent with the recent benign inflation outlook observed in the last quarters. 
19. The Committee emphasizes, once again, that there are important time lags in the transmission of monetary policy stance to economic activity and inflation. Since the beginning of the monetary easing cycle, in September 2005, the Selic rate has already been reduced by 850 b.p., with the bulk of the reduction concentrated in the last nine months. Consequently, neither has the activity level completely mirrored the effects of the interest rates cuts yet, nor have the effects of the economic activity on inflation completely materialized. Therefore, the evaluation of alternative monetary policy stances should necessarily focus on the prospective inflation scenario and its risks, instead of current inflation indicators. 
20. During the coming months, credit growth and payroll expansion should continue to bolster economic activity. As mentioned in recent Copom Minutes, activity level should also reflect the effects of governmental transfers and other fiscal impulses expected for the next quarters of the year and for 2008. Consequently, the lagged effects of interest rates cuts on an increasingly robust aggregate demand will add up to other factors that will continue to contribute to this expansion. These issues become even more relevant considering the clear signs of heated aggregate demand, and the fact that the monetary policy decisions will have limited effects in 2007 and predominant impacts in 2008. 
21. The Copom recognizes the contribution of investment, enlarging the productive capacity, and of the external sector to mitigate inflationary pressures, but evaluates that the pace of domestic demand expansion, which should continue to be sustained by factors such as the impulse derived from the monetary policy easing implemented this year, may bring non-insignificant risks to the inflationary dynamics. 
22. Aiming at consolidating a stable and predictable environment, the Copom has privileged a strategy to avoid a volatile inflationary trajectory. This strategy takes into consideration the lags in the transmission mechanisms and has been the most adequate to deal with the uncertainty inherent to the process of monetary policy formulation. That is the reason why variables such as inflation projections, the balance of risks associated to the prospective scenario and the preventive stance in the decision-making process of the Copom are so important. Prudence assumes an even more important role in this process, like at the current moment, when the deterioration of the balance of inflationary risks reduces the safety margin of the monetary policy. 
23. Under this context, considering the uncertainties associated with both the transmission mechanisms of the monetary policy and the prospective growth pace of aggregate supply and demand, the Copom decided to pause the monetary policy easing process. This decision aims to preserve the gains in inflation control and to ensure that the strengthening of economic activity continues to be underpinned by solid fundamentals. Therefore, the Committee unanimously decided to maintain the Selic target rate at 11.25% p.a., without bias. 
24. Under the inflation-targeting regime, the Copom decides according to inflation prospects, the analysis of several alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine price prospective dynamics and its balance of risks. Domestic demand continues to expand vigorously, backing-up economic activity strength. This expansion encompasses some sectors little exposed to external competition, at a time when the effects of important incentive factors, such as the monetary easing already implemented, are still not fully perceived. In spite of not being an imminent threat to inflation prospects, the contribution of the external sector to the maintenance of a benign inflationary scenario may become less effective, at a moment when the effects of investment over the productive capacity of the economy still need to consolidate. In such environment, the monetary authority must remain vigilant, so that short-term uncertainties do not contaminate longer time horizons. 