1. IPCA inflation accelerated in May and June to 0.79% and 0.74%, respectively, up from 0.55% in April. As a consequence, inflation reached 3.64% in the first half of 2008 – the highest 6-month change observed since May 2005, up from 2.08% in the same period of 2007. Twelve-month trailing inflation continued to accelerate. In fact, after reaching 5.04% in April, it totaled 5.58% in May and 6.06% in June (compared to 3.69% in the same month of 2007). Under this comparison basis, the acceleration of consumer price inflation essentially mirrors the behavior of market prices, which increased more rapidly than regulated prices. In deed, market prices and regulated prices increased 7.98% and 1.77%, respectively, in the twelve months through June, compared to 4.10% and 2.78% in the twelve months through June 2007. Moreover, despite the BRL appreciation, the prices of tradable goods accelerated, reaching 7.78% (compared to 3.14% in June 2007), according to the same comparison basis. Regarding the prices of non-tradable goods, greatly pressured by the behavior of perishable food and services prices, twelve-month trailing inflation was even higher (8.16%), evidencing the influence of domestic factors over inflationary dynamics. For instance, the price of services increased 5.75% in June 2008, up from 5.19% in December and 4.95% in June 2007, according to the same comparison basis. Preliminary data for July point to the continuity of consumer inflation at elevated levels, despite some moderation at the margin. In short, since the end of 2007, inflation has diverged from the targets path. 
2. The three main underlying inflation measures calculated by the BCB have evolved in line with the headline index. The core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices, the smoothed trimmed means core inflation and the non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation measures increased from 0.53%, 0.48% and 0.41% in April, to 0.68%, 0.50% and 0.55% in May, and to 0.55%, 0.49% and 0.48% in June, respectively. Similarly to headline inflation, the three core inflation measures remarkably accelerated in the first half of the year, compared to the same period of 2007, with increases from 2.02%, 1.86% and 1.63% to 3.26%, 2.52% and 2.64% for the core inflation by exclusion, smoothed and non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation, respectively. On a twelve-month trailing basis, the three core inflation measures continued to follow the behavior of headline inflation. Core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices continued to increase significantly, to 5.37% in June, up from 5.03% in May and 4.66% in April. Smoothed trimmed means core inflation showed similar behavior (4.72% in June, up from 4.56% in May and 4.36% in April), whereas the non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation increased to 4.65% in June, up from 4.39% in May, and 4.14% in April. As a consequence, all core inflation measures stand above the central value for the inflation target. Moreover, it bears emphasizing that the behavior of diffusion indices suggests increased dissemination of the inflationary process, confirming the analysis present in previous Copom Minutes. 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) inflation increased to 1.89% in June, up from 1.88% in May and 1.12% in April. On a twelve-month trailing basis, IGP-DI inflation accelerated to 13.96% in June, up from 12.14% in May, 10.24% in April and 3.96% in June 2007. In the twelve months through June, the IGP-DI increase reflected the behavior of the three main components. The Consumer Price Index-Brazil (IPC-Br) increased 5.96% (3.98% in June 2007), while the Wholesale Price Index (IPA-DI) totaled 17.90% (3.76% in June 2007). According to the same comparison basis, the Civil Construction National Index (INCC) increased 9.13% (5.20% in June 2007). Regarding the agricultural IPA, inflation reached 37.91% (8.07% in the twelve months through June 2007). It also bears highlighting the continuity of upward pressures over wholesale industrial prices, a process that began in the second half of 2007 and does not signal accommodation. In the first half of 2008, wholesale price inflation increased 8.47%, up from 1.52% in the same period of 2007. In addition, in the last twelve months, wholesale industrial price inflation increased 11.58% in June, up from 4.42% in December 2007. As mentioned in previous Copom Minutes, the Copom evaluates that the effects of wholesale prices over consumer price inflation will depend on current and prospective demand conditions and price-setters’ expectations for the future inflation path. 
4. After the last Copom meeting, the IBGE released data for 2008 first quarter GDP. Data showed robust growth rates in the first quarter of 2008, both for accumulated results in the year (5.8% up from 5.4% in the fourth quarter of 2007), and for year-over-year results (5.8% as against 6.2% in the previous quarter). On the aggregate demand side, gross fixed capital formation continues to post strong figures, growing by 15.2% in the first quarter of 2008, year-over-year. The expansion of household consumption, which tends to be less volatile than investment along the cycle, retreated from 8.6% in the last quarter of 2007, to still robust 6.6% in the first quarter of the year, under the same comparison basis. On the aggregate supply side, it bears emphasizing the increase in industrial production (6.9%), led by manufacturing industry (7.3% growth) and by civil construction industry (8.8% expansion) in the first quarter of the year, year-over-year. 
5. On a three-month moving average basis, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, industrial output increased 0.1% in May, after growing by 0.7% in the previous month. Still considering the seasonally adjusted series, after the 0.2% expansion observed in April, industrial output retreated 0.5% in May, month-on-month, partially reflecting the unusual holiday schedule observed this year. It bears noticing that general industrial output grew 6.2% in the year through May, with respective increases of 6.2% and 6.1% in manufacturing and in mining output. On a year-over-year basis, industrial output expanded by 2.4% in May (even with less two working days), with changes of 2.1% and 7.2%, respectively, in manufacturing industry and in mining. The data already released for the last months point, in short, to the continuity of the industrial production expansion cycle, despite at a more moderate pace and subject to possible limits to supply expansion. 
6. Among the use categories, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, capital goods production retreated 4.9% in May, after increasing by 1.0% in April. Regarding the other use categories, intermediate goods production increased 0.3%, durable consumer goods production retreated by 1.3% for and semi- and non-durable consumer goods production expanded by 1.3%. In the year, capital goods production leads the expansion, with a 16.3% increase, followed by the 13.7% elevation in durable consumer goods production. Despite the strong fall observed in May, there are no sufficient evidences of inflection in the expansion process of capital goods production, which has been mainly driven by the consolidation of positive prospects for the continuity of economic growth. On its turn, the dynamism of durable consumer goods production reflects, predominantly, credit conditions, which remain more favorable than historical patterns. The existence of signs pointing to pressure over the availability of production factors suggests that accommodation in the pace of industrial activity expansion can be greatly associated to productive capacity restrictions, added up to imports penetration increase. 
7. Labor market continues to present quite favorable performance. The unemployment rate in the six metropolitan regions covered by the Monthly Labor Survey (PME) decreased to 7.9% in May, down from 8.5% in April. As a result, the average unemployment rate in the first five months of the year was 1.6 p.p. below that observed in the same period of 2007. According to data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, the unemployment rate decreased to 7.6% in May down from 8.0% in April, a record low for the month since the start of the historical series in 2002. In May, real average earnings fell 1.0% month-on-month and increased 1.5% year-over-year. In the first five months of 2008, real average earnings increased 2.4%, while employment grew 3.9%. As a consequence, real payrolls expanded by 6.4% (6.2% growth in May in year-over-year terms), continuing to constitute a key driver for domestic demand growth. According to the National Industry Confederation (CNI) data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, manufacturing employment increased by 0.2% in May (compared to 0.1% in April and 0.2% in March). In year-over-year terms, employment grew 3.8%, totaling 4.2% growth in the last twelve months. Still regarding employment, data from the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) indicate the continuity of strong expansion in formal employment this year, with the creation of 202.9 thousand jobs in May and 309.4 thousand jobs in June. June results corresponds to a 48.9% increase over the previous record high for the month, registered in 2004 (207.9 thousand jobs) and a 2.5% increase over the record high in the series observed in April 2007 (301.9 thousand jobs). In the first half of the year, employment reached a record high of 1,361.4 thousand hires, an evidence of the labor market heat. Formal employment grew by 0.7% in June, seasonally adjusted, and observed data point to a 5.8% expansion in formal employment in the last twelve months. The agricultural sector presented the highest hiring rate in June, with the creation of 92.6 thousand new jobs, a record high for the series in the month, followed by the services sector (73.4 thousand new jobs), also a record high for the period. The manufacturing industry recorded 52.2 thousand new jobs, up from 27.8 thousand in June 2007, whereas the retail sector recorded 48.2 thousand new jobs (28.2 thousand in June 2007) and the civil construction recorded 36.8 thousand new jobs (18.5 thousand in June 2007). Besides the process of formalization in the labor market, these data evidence the strong dynamism in labor force demand. In fact, formal employment grew by 6.2% in 2008. 
8. In line with the positive developments in the labor market and with credit expansion, retail sales continue to record positive performance, indicating that the pace of domestic demand growth remains robust, and signs of cooling cannot be perceived. According to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, expanded retail sales grew by 0.8% in May, after increasing 1.4% in April and 1.3% in March, and growing by 11.3% year-over-year and 14.2% in the first five months of 2008. Expanded retail sales three-month moving average increased 1.2% in May, month-on-month, representing the 25th consecutive monthly increase. According to data seasonally adjusted, on a month-on-month basis, it bears emphasizing the expansion in “office, computing and communication material and equipment” (5.1%) and “other personal and domestic articles” (2.0%). In 2008, accumulated growth was more significant in “office, computing and communication material and equipment” (28.8%), “vehicles, motorcycles, parts and pieces” (21.4%) and “other personal and domestic articles” (20.4%). Despite the rise in the prices of food, hyper- and supermarket sales, food products, beverages and tobacco showed a 6.8% significant growth in 2008. The steady growth of retail sales has, therefore, reflected the performance of both the sectors more sensitive to income and employment expansions and those more sensitive to credit conditions. For the next quarters, the continuity of the current expansion cycle of retail sales is expected, and will continue to be underpinned by employment and income growth, credit expansion and the maintenance of consumer confidence at high levels. Sector indicators, for instance, relative to automobile sales in June, corroborate this assessment. 
9. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry reached 82.7% in May down from 83.1% in April, according to CNI data seasonally adjusted by the BCB. According to data seasonally adjusted by CNI, since March the Nuci in the manufacturing industry has showed stability in a level slightly below the record high observed for the series in November 2007 (82.97%). Without the seasonal adjustment, the Nuci stood almost at the same level registered in May 2007. As a consequence, the average rate in the first five months of 2008 was 1.0 p.p. above the level observed in the same period of 2007. The monthly Nuci calculated by Fundação Getúlio Vargas (FGV) reached 86.4% in June, according to the observed series, standing significantly above the 84.7% level registered in the same month of 2007. The elevation in the Nuci in June 2008, year-over-year, is also observed for the production of civil construction inputs sector (5.1 p.p.), for the consumer goods sector (4.8 p.p.) and for the capital goods sector (3.9 p.p.). For the intermediate goods sector, the Nuci stood 0.2 p.p. below the level observed in June 2007. The maintenance of installed capacity utilization rates at historically high levels occurs in several sectors despite investments accumulated in the last twelve months. Indeed, in May 2008, according to seasonally adjusted data, the absorption of capital goods decreased 3.1%, influenced by the 4.9% reduction in the capital goods production, despite the 12.6% volume growth of capital goods imports in volume, favored by the end of strike on Brazilian Tax Authority. In the same period, the production of civil construction inputs increased 5.8%. Considering that the absorption of capital goods in 2008 presented a robust result (18.8%), expressed in the significant growth of capital goods imports (34.0% in volume) and of capital goods production (16.3%), it is premature to assume the last monthly data for the absorption of capital goods as a trend signal. In the same period, the production of inputs for civil construction industry increased by 9.3%. In short, recent data indicate that, although investment has been contributing to soften the increasing trend of capacity utilization rates, the maturation of investment projects has not been sufficient, until now, to significantly limit existing mismatches regarding the evolution of aggregate supply and domestic demand. As stressed in previous Copom Minutes, the inflation trajectory is closely linked to current and prospective developments related to the expansion of supply of goods and services, to adequately meet demand conditions. 
10. The trade balance continues to present deceleration at the margin, a trend that was already expected, and is in line with assessments present in Inflation Reports and previous Copom Minutes. In the last twelve months through June the trade surplus reached US$30.8 billion (35.2% below June 2007). Exports and imports totaled US$178.1 billion and US$147.3 billion, equivalent to 18.7% and 43.7% growth, respectively, in the last twelve months, compared to the same period ended in June 2007. As highlighted in previous Copom Minutes, imports have been growing faster than exports, both due to the strengthening of the BRL and to the robust economic activity in the country, notwithstanding the elevated price levels of several commodities included in the Brazilian export basket. The decrease in trade surplus contributed to the US$15.2 billion current account deficit registered in the twelve months through May 2008, equivalent to 1.1% of GDP. Foreign direct investment reached US$38.0 billion in the same period, equivalent to 2.8% of GDP. 
11. Regarding the external scenario, the world economy still shows divergent pressures. On the one hand, even though economic activity, in general, has been stronger than anticipated in the majority of countries in the first semester, which in some cases resulted in upward revisions in growth projections for the year, the more recent data shows some signs of weakening, especially in mature economies. This trend should continue during the second semester. On the other hand, the increase in the prices of raw material, and the pressures of heated demand over the capacity of supply expansion, which are particularly evident in emerging economies, have resulted in strong acceleration of current inflation, significantly impacting, in several cases, inflationary  expectations. In addition, a severe financial crisis in the U.S. and, at a lower extension, in Europe, is added up to this difficult macroeconomic scenario. In this context, although the existence of strong inflationary pressures is cause of concern for the majority of monetary authorities, policy reactions, aiming to control demand, have occurred unsynchronized, situation that tends to persist. Specifically, the US economy seems to have entered a process of economic stagnation since the last quarter of 2007, and still suffers the impact of the crisis in the real estate sector, with spillover effects on the labor market, whose weakening, in combination with higher oil prices, affects consumer confidence, contributing importantly to depress consumption. Even if the influence of monetary and fiscal stimulus can reduce the risk of a significant contraction in activity, the dominant scenario continues to point to a more consistent recover only from 2009. Even after significant strengthening of the capital basis of relevant financial institutions, uncertainties still remain about the length and amplitude of the effects of the US subprime mortgages market crisis over US and European banking system and over credit conditions for households and corporate. The systemic risk perception increased again in the last weeks, as financial problems have worsened due to a cyclic deterioration in credit quality, which tends to reinforce the tightening of financial conditions, increasing the risk of slowdown intensification. The dominant view seems to be that the economic activity in Europe - despite the better-than-expected performance at the start of the year, anchored in the German economy - and in Japan might also decelerate in the second half of the year. In the central economies, therefore, the prospects for adoption of monetary tightening policies seem limited. On the other hand, despite some moderation at the margin, economic growth in emerging economies is still strong and, so far, it has apparently been little affected by the US mortgage crisis, offsetting the effects of economic deceleration in mature economies. In fact, in light of pressures over the availability of production factors, inflation acceleration points to the continuity of monetary tightening policies in emerging economies. In this context, volatility and risk aversion indicators in international financial markets have increased considerably since the last Copom meeting. However, the policies aimed at reducing the external vulnerability of the economy have been successful, contributing to mitigate, but not to eliminate, the effects of the external scenario difficulties over the Brazilian economic activity, whose dynamism has essentially been driven by domestic demand. 
12. Oil prices, systematic source of uncertainty stemming from the international scenario, continue highly volatile and are still in high historical levels. This behavior reflects structural changes in global energy markets, which have blocked the recovery of inventory levels traditionally observed, in addition to recurrent geopolitical tensions. Despite significant uncertainties inherent to oil prices forecasts, the main scenario considered by the Copom forecasts unchanged domestic gasoline prices in 2008, although the probability of materialization of an alternative scenario is relevant. However, apart from the behavior of domestic gasoline prices, one should recognize that the consistent elevation of international oil prices impacts domestic economy both through productive chains, such as the petrochemical, as well as through the deterioration of inflation expectations. The prices of other commodities, especially grains, which have also increased significantly since the last Copom meeting, despite more pessimism about the prospects for global economic growth and the turmoil on global financial markets, continue, with few exceptions, to record increases in the year. 
13. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations utilized the following assumptions: 
a) The projected adjustments for gasoline and bottled gas prices were maintained at 0% for 2008, 
b) The projections for electricity price adjustments and fixed telephone prices were maintained at 1.1% and 3.5% in 2008, respectively, 
c) The projection for regulated prices inflation, based on individual items, was maintained at 4.0% for 2008. This set of prices, according to data released by the IBGE, corresponded to 29.81% of the total June IPCA, 
d) The projection for regulated prices inflation in 2008 was altered to 4.8% from 4.5%, considered in the previous meeting. This projection is based on the endogenous determination model for regulated prices, which computes seasonal components, foreign exchange rate changes, market prices inflation and the IGP (General Price Index) variation,  
e) The projection for the spreads over the Selic rate based on the 360-day swap rates estimates a 131bps spread in the fourth quarter of 2008 and 87bps spread in the last quarter of 2009. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. 
14. Regarding fiscal policy, the projections assume the achievement of the public sector primary surplus target of 3.8% of GDP in 2008 and 2009, increased by 0.5 p.p. The related assumptions considered in the previous meeting were maintained. 
15. Since the June Copom meeting, according to median IPCA inflation expectations compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations Group (Gerin), the 2008 IPCA variation increased significantly, reaching 6.53% from 5.48%. Twelve-month ahead inflation expectations also elevated to 5.44% up from 5.01%, considering the medians of expected monthly rates. For 2009, inflation expectations also increased to 5.00% up from 4.60%. 
16. Considering the hypothesis under the benchmark scenario – which assumes the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$1.60/US$1.00 and the Selic rate at 12.25% during the forecast period – the projection for the 2008 IPCA increased significantly compared to the figure considered at the June Copom meeting, remaining above the 4.5% target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). According to the forecast based on the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin on the eve of the Copom meeting – IPCA inflation forecast for 2008 also increased remarkably compared to the figure considered at the previous Copom meeting, and is also above the central target for the year. Regarding 2009, projections based on both benchmark and market scenarios increased compared to the figures considered at the June meeting, and are also above the 4.5% central target. 
17. The Copom evaluates that monetary policy should contribute for the consolidation of a favorable long-term macroeconomic environment. Economic activity data indicate that the pace of domestic demand expansion continues quite robust, and is at least partially the cause of the short-term inflationary pressures, despite strong imports growth and the favorable investment performance. Even in the context of a moderate deceleration of global growth and higher volatility observed in global markets since mid-2007, the Committee believes, based on information available at the moment of its meeting, that the balance of payments should not represent an imminent risk to the inflationary scenario. However, in general terms, the influence of the external scenario on the future trajectory of Brazilian inflation continues subject to contradictory effects and highly uncertain. On the one hand, the prospects of a possible more pronounced deceleration of global activity in the coming months points to an accommodation of both commodities prices and external demand. On the other hand, the recent trajectory of price indices both in mature and in emerging economies evidences the existence of mismatches between the supply and demand growth, and consequently, of significant inflationary risks to the global economy. In light of the deterioration of inflation prospects, in a more uncertain environment, the Committee evaluates that the risk of materialization of a less benign scenario continues to increase. The Copom emphasizes that the main challenge of monetary policy in this context is to guarantee the maintenance of favorable results achieved in the last years. Particularly, monetary policy should act so that initially limited impacts on price indices, partially derived from relative prices adjustments that occur in global scale, do not cause persistent deterioration of inflation dynamics due to worse expectations. The Copom thinks that the maintenance of monetary stability is an essential condition for the relative prices system to continue efficiently guiding the necessary adjustments on current consumption and production patterns of the economy. 
18. The Copom considers that the probability that inflationary pressures initially limited represent risks to domestic inflation trajectory has increased, as the heating of domestic demand and market of factors, as well as the possibility of emergence of supply restrictions in some sectors, may increase the pass-through of wholesale prices over consumer price inflation. The Committee evaluates that the prospects for this pass-through, as well as for the propagation of initially localized pressures to consumer prices, depend in a critical manner on inflation expectations, which increased significantly in the last weeks and continue to be carefully monitored. Additionally, it is worth highlighting that although the external sector induces some discipline in tradable goods inflation, imports prices have been increasing strongly, furthermore, heated domestic demand may trigger more intense inflationary pressures in the non-tradable sector - in services prices, for instance. In this context, the Copom will act aiming to ensure that inflation control gains achieved in recent years become permanent. In this respect, the Committee will continue to carefully monitor the evolution of inflation and the several core inflation measures, as well as of inflation expectations within the forecast period, prepared to promptly adjust the monetary policy stance in order to avoid the consolidation of a scenario in which one-off price adjustments become persistent or generalized. 
19. The preservation of inflation rates in line with the targets path and the consequent consolidation of a long-term stable macroeconomic environment will contribute for the maintenance of the progressive reduction of macroeconomic risk perception that has been occurring in the last years. The Copom thinks that the persistence of a cautious and timely monetary policy stance has been critical to increase the probability that in Brazil inflation will continue to evolve according to the targets path, even in light of global inflationary pressures. For this to materialize, however, it is necessary that forward-looking inflation indicators, particularly the expected dynamic of aggregate supply and demand, converge throughout the relevant period for the monetary policy. 
20. The Copom emphasizes, once again, that there are important time lags between the implementation of monetary policy and its effects on economic activity and inflation. Therefore, the evaluation of alternative options for monetary policy should necessarily focus on the forward-looking inflation scenario and its risks, instead of current inflation indices. 
21. During the coming months, despite the more moderate credit growth pace due to an increase in funding costs, and real payroll expansion should continue to bolster economic activity. The effects of governmental transfers expected for this and the next quarters should also add up to the factors that will sustain demand, but with less intensity than previously anticipated, as mentioned in the previous Copom Meeting Minutes. These considerations become even more relevant considering the clear signs of heated aggregate demand, the dissemination of pressures stemming from adjustments in relative prices, and the fact that the monetary policy decisions will have concentrated effects in the last months of 2008 and in 2009. 
22. The Copom recognizes the important contribution of investment to expand productive capacity. It should be noticed that the possible accommodation of commodities prices could contribute to avoid that inflationary pressures intensify even more. However, the Copom evaluates that the pace of domestic demand expansion, which should continue to be underpinned, among other factors, by income and credit growth, continues to present significant risks to inflationary dynamics. In this context, the consistent and prompt reduction of the mismatch between the expansion of supply of goods and services and the increase of demand continues to be vital to the assessment of different possibilities of monetary policy stance. 
23. International evidence and Brazilian experience indicate that higher inflation rates lead to higher risk premium, shorter planning horizons and, as a consequence, lower potential economic growth, besides having regressive effects on income distribution. Moreover, in the current circumstances, there is the risk that economic agents start to attribute higher probability that inflation increases will become persistent, which would reduce the efficacy of the monetary policy. Therefore, the Copom’s strategy aims to bring inflation rates back to the 4.5% midpoint target promptly, that is, already in 2009. This approach takes into account the time lags in the transmission mechanism and has proved to be the most adequate to deal with uncertainties intrinsic in the process of monetary policy formulation and implementation. 
24. The Copom evaluates that, in light of the economy heating signals, as illustrated by the acceleration of some wholesale prices and the evolution of core inflation measures, and by the fast increase in inflation expectations, the risks for the materialization of a benign inflationary scenario, in which IPCA would remain in line with the targets path, are relevant. In fact, the deterioration of the forward-looking scenario is already present in the inflation projections considered by the Committee. The Copom also considers that the persistence of significant mismatch between the paces of expansion of aggregate supply and demand has increased the risk for the inflationary dynamics. In these circumstances, monetary policy should act vigorously through the adjustment of the basic interest rate while the balance of risks to the inflationary dynamics requires, in order to, on the one hand, reduce such mismatch and, on the other hand, avoid that inflationary pressures initially localized on price indices lead to persistent deterioration of expectations and of the inflation forward-looking scenario.
25. In this context, evaluating the macroeconomic scenario and aiming to promote the prompt convergence of inflation towards the target path, the Committee unanimously decided to raise the Selic target rate to 13.00% p.a., without bias. 
26. Under the inflation-targeting regime, the Copom decides according to inflation prospects, the analysis of several alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine the prospective price dynamics and the balance of risks associated to its projections. Domestic demand continues to expand vigorously, backing-up economic activity dynamism, including sectors little exposed to external competition, at a time when the effects of important incentive factors, such as income growth, are still perceived. On its turn, the contribution of the external sector to a benign inflationary scenario, in light of robust domestic demand growth and the increase of global inflationary pressures, seems to become less effective, at a moment when the effects of investment over productive capacity of the economy still need to consolidate. In such environment, the monetary authority should act in order to avoid that short-term uncertainties contaminate longer time horizons. Evidently, if the risk profile changes in a matter that implies shifts in the basic inflation prospective scenario considered at the present moment, the Committee will promptly adjust the monetary policy stance to the circumstances.