1. IPCA inflation decelerated from 0.48% in January and 0.55% in February to 0.20% in March. As a consequence, inflation accumulated in the first quarter of 2009 reached 1.23%, decreasing 0.28 p.p. relative to the level registered in the same period of the previous year. In the last twelve months, inflation declined from 5.90% in December to 5.61% in March (4.73% in March 2008). The deceleration of twelve-month consumer price trailing inflation in the first three months of the year mirrored the behavior of market prices, as regulated prices increased. Considering market prices, both prices of tradable goods and non-tradable goods cooled on a twelve-month trailing basis, reaching 6.10% and 6.74%, respectively, in March, down from 6.99% and 7.10% in December 2008, despite the acceleration relative to the levels observed in the same month of the previous year. According to the same comparison basis, the prices of services, whose dynamics tends to show more persistence than that of the prices of goods, increased from 6.39% in December to 6.63% in January and 7.09% in February, and decreased to 6.83% in March (5.11% in March 2008). Preliminary data for April point to consumer inflation above that observed in March. In short, information available suggest that the inflationary cycle observed in the last year has been gradually overcome by a process that should continue to be led by the behavior of market prices, while regulated price inflation should show more persistence. 
2. The three main underlying inflation measures calculated by the BCB showed divergent behavior in the first three months of the year. The core inflation by exclusion of household food items and regulated prices increased from 0.27% in January to 0.88% in February, reflecting seasonal factors, and then decreased to 0.25% in March. On the other hand, smoothed and non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation measures showed lower variation, recording 0.42% and 0.44% in January, 0.29% and 0.27% in February and 0.35% and 0.21% in March, respectively. The twelve-month trailing inflation measures changed from 6.09%, 4.82% and 4.92% in December to 6.02%, 4.85% and 4.64% in March, for the core inflation by exclusion, smoothed and non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation, respectively, remaining in levels above the midpoint of the target. Moreover, it bears emphasizing that the behavior of the IPCA diffusion index reduced to 60.2% in March down from 61.7% in December (compared to 58.6% in March 2008). 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) inflation changed -0.13% in February and -0.84% in March, down from 0.01% in January. On a twelve-month trailing basis, the IGP-DI inflation decreased from 9.10% in December to 5.86% in March, compared to 9.18% in March 2008. The slowdown of the IGP-DI has reflected the behavior of its main component, the Wholesale Price Index (IPA-DI), which decreased from 9.80% in December to 4.98% in March, on a twelve-month trailing basis (11.39% in March 2008). On its turn, the Consumer Price Index-Brazil (IPC-Br) increased 6.32% (4.52% in March 2008) and, according to the same comparison basis, the Civil Construction National Index (INCC) increased 10.66% (6.69% in March 2008). Regarding the IPA-DI, the inflationary deceleration, under this comparison basis, derives basically from the behavior of agricultural prices. The agricultural IPA reached -0.93% in March (24.70% in March 2008), while the elevation of wholesale industrial prices reached 7.22% (6.98% in March 2008). It bears noticing that, despite the effects of the exchange rate depreciation that has occurred since the third quarter of last year, wholesale industrial prices have showed deflation at the margin. As mentioned in previous Copom Minutes, the Copom evaluates that the effects of wholesale prices over consumer price inflation will depend on current and prospective demand conditions and price-setters’ expectations for the future inflation path.
4. On a three-month moving average basis, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, industrial output decreased 3.3% in February, after falling by 6.3% in the previous month. Still considering the seasonally adjusted series, according to the month-to-month comparison, industrial output increased by 1.8% in February, after the 2.2% expansion observed in January. On a year-over-year basis, industrial output retreated by 17% in February, with respective falls of 18.8% and 16.9% in mining and manufacturing industries. The analysis of the behavior of IBGE industrial output series and its components, at the margin, according to data available, suggests that production would have reached its lowest level in December-January. However, the industrial activity continues to be influenced by the international crisis, due to its effects both over exports and credit conditions, and over business and households’ expectations. In this context, some industrial segments have been led to adjust inventories and reduce production, a process that has recently been particularly evident in the intermediate goods industry. 
5. Among the use categories, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, the production of capital goods decreased by 6.3% in February, after increasing 4.9% in January. Regarding the other use categories, intermediate goods production increased 1.5% in February and 0.9% in January, semi-durable consumer goods production increased 1.7% in February and decreased 0.5% in January, and the production of durable goods, strongly influenced by the automotive sector increased by 10.5% in February, after a 36.2% increase in January. The recent slowdown in capital goods production reflects the persistence of the international financial turmoil and its consequences over business confidence. On its turn, the recover, at the margin, in the pace of durable goods production expansion reflects, predominantly, the exemption tax measures and also some easing of credit conditions. The future trajectory of industrial production should continue to be influenced by these factors, which counterbalance the deterioration of external demand and the process of inventories adjustment mentioned above. 
6. Labor market has continued to record ambiguous indicators, combining positive aspects with signs of loss of vigor. The unemployment rate in the six metropolitan regions covered by the Monthly Labor Survey (PME) changed from 8.5% in February to 9.0% in March (8.6% in March 2008). According to the seasonally adjusted series, the unemployment rate increased 0.2 p.p., reaching 8.5%. Average real earnings increased by 4.6% in February, in year-over-year terms, and increased 5.0% in March, according to the same comparison basis, due to, in part, inflation deceleration. Employment, on its turn, expanded by 1.4% in February and 0.9% in March, in year-over-year terms. As a consequence, real payroll increased 6.6% in January and 6.2% in February, continuing to constitute a key driver for domestic demand growth. According to the National Industry Confederation (CNI) data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, manufacturing employment retreated by 0.9% in February, after decreasing by 0.8% in January and by 0.9% in December 2008. In year-over-year terms, employment declined 1.5%, and expanded by 3%, on a twelve-month trailing basis. According to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, manufacturing employment fell 1.3% in February (after falling 1.3% in January 2009 and 1.9% in December 2008), totaling a 1.0% increase in twelve months and a 4.2% decline year-over-year. Still regarding the labor market, data from the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) indicate some recover in the generation of formal employment, despite below the seasonal pattern. In March, 34,818 jobs were created (compared to the positive result of 9,179 in February). The manufacturing industry recorded the highest dismissal rate in March, with the reduction of 35,775 jobs, followed by the commerce sector, which habitually hires in this period of the year, with the reduction of 9,697 positions. On the other hand, the civil construction sector and the services sector hired workers in the month: 16,123 and 49,280 jobs, respectively. The result for the civil construction was above the average of the last five years (13,958 jobs). 
7. According to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, expanded retail sales increased by 2.5% in February, after increasing 5.3% in January. On a year-over-year basis, the indicator increased by 1.6%, growing by 2.2% in the year. The three-month moving average of expanded retail sales increased 2.6% in February, quarter-over-quarter, according to seasonally adjusted data, after expanding by 1.1% in January. On a month-on-month basis, according to seasonally adjusted data, it bears emphasizing the expansion in the sales of “vehicles, motorcycles, parts and pieces” (4.6%) and “other personal and domestic articles” (4.3%). The negative key drivers were “books, newspapers, magazines and stationary” (-9.1%) and “furniture and appliances” (-1.2%). In the year, cumulative growth was more significant in “office material and equipment” (13.3%) and “books, newspapers, magazines and stationary” (13.1%). After falls in October, November and December, expanded retail sales data for January and February evidence a recovery influenced mainly by the increase in the sales of vehicles, in response to the sector incentives granted by the government and some recover in the access to vehicle credit supply. For the next quarters, the retail sales trajectory will continue to be sustained by fiscal transfers, as well as by real payroll growth, whose evolution should be favored by the reduction of inflation, but it will also be affected by the evolution in the access to credit supply and by the behavior of consumer confidence. 
8. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry reached 77.8% in February, below the level observed in January, according to CNI data seasonally adjusted by the BCB. According to data seasonally adjusted by CNI, the Nuci in the manufacturing industry remained stable at 77.8% in January and February. Without the seasonal adjustment, in February the Nuci stood 5.5 p.p. below the level registered in the same month of 2008. On its turn, the monthly non-seasonally adjusted Nuci calculated by Fundação Getúlio Vargas (FGV) remained stable in March at 77.0%, standing 8.2 p.p. below the level registered in the same month of 2008. The reduction in the Nuci, year-over-year, is also observed in the production of consumer goods (-5.1 p.p.), intermediate goods (-9.6 p.p.), capital goods (-15.8 p.p.) and civil construction inputs (-9.3 p.p.). The reduction on Nuci calculated by CNI and FGV seems to be a result of a combination between the maturity of investment projects and accommodation of economic activity, and points to significant increase of the idle capacity level of the manufacturing industry. On the other hand, data about the absorption of capital goods indicate continuity of retraction at the margin and compared to the same periods of last year. The absorption of capital goods decreased 6.7% in February, according to seasonally adjusted data, and by 25.5% in year-over-year terms, according to observed data. In its turn, the production of civil construction inputs showed stability at the margin in February, after decreasing 0.5% in January, falling 13.5% year-over-year. In short, evidences suggest an ongoing process of reduction in demand pressures over the productive capacity level of the manufacturing industry, although the speed of decline in the utilization rates has reduced. As stressed in previous Copom Minutes, the inflation trajectory is closely linked to current and prospective developments related to the expansion of supply of goods and services, to adequately meet demand conditions. 
9. The twelve-month cumulative trade balance has been showing moderate growth at the margin. Under this comparison basis, the trade surplus reached US$23.3 billion in January and increased to US$ 24.2 billion in February and to US$25.1 billion in March. This total resulted from US$ 190.4 billion in exports and US$ 165.3 billion in imports, equivalent to 15.2% and 26.0% growth, respectively, year-over-year. The adjustment in relative prices and the accommodation in the pace of expansion of domestic demand contribute to the recovery of the trade surplus, but the deterioration in the terms of trade acts on the opposite direction. The reduction in remittances of profits and dividends has contributed to limit the current account deficit, which reached US$ 28.2 billion in December 2008, decreasing to US$ 23.0 billion in March, equivalent to 1.6% of GDP. On its turn, foreign direct investment reached US$41.6 billion in the twelve months through March, equivalent to 2.9% of GDP. 
10. The period since the last Copom meeting was marked by the continuity of stress on international financial markets, which originated in the US and Europe, but whose impact on emerging economies has continued to be significant. However, the unprecedented actions taken by the authorities in the US and Europe, using wide range of instruments, in order to ensure minimum conditions of operation and liquidity in monetary markets, have moderated the perception of systemic risk. In this environment, there are signs, albeit incipient, of reduction in risk aversion, but the return of confidence remains fragile, due to the susceptibility of the markets to the flow of economic and non-economic news. Despite incipient, the decrease both in the risk aversion and in the scarcity of capital flows in the recent weeks encouraged the recovery of emerging economies’ currencies against the US dollar. 
11. Regarding the global macroeconomic scenario, contraction trends prevail over inflationary pressures. The currently predominant view points to the contraction of global economic activity in 2009, which would recover just in 2010. The consensual projections point to an intense retraction of activity in the US, Europe and Japan, which wouldn’t be totally offset by the economic dynamism of some emerging economies, especially in Asia. There are evidences that the deeper weakening of economic activity in Europe and parts of Asia was in a significant manner due to the negative shock in the terms of trade caused by the elevation of commodities prices in 2008, which was reverted, allowing an increase in available income in these regions. On the other hand, the problems in the international financial system have continued to be aggravated by a cyclical deterioration in the quality of credit, focused on the US and Europe, which tends to reinforce the contraction in the financial conditions and, as a consequence, the risk of intensification in the deceleration. In mature economies, where inflation expectations are better anchored and economic activity has decelerated considerably and for a longer period, inflationary pressures have reduced rapidly. The disinflation process seems to have gained momentum also in the emerging economies, in spite of greater persistence of the inflation dynamics. In this context, monetary policies stances have become highly expansionist in the mature economies, while the expansionary stance in the emerging economies has been more moderate. At the same time, the authorities in the US, Western Europe and Asia have been announcing a series of important initiatives aimed at sustaining economic activity through fiscal incentives, which could contribute to a gradual economic recovery. It’s important to notice, however, that the estimates on the fiscal costs for macroeconomic stimulus and support packages to the financial sector have been increasing, which has caused pressures over the risk assessment of several sovereign credits, even in advanced economies. 
12. Oil prices remain volatile, but showed important elevation relative to the levels observed at the last Copom meeting. Future markets quotations also increased. Uncertainty concerning these quotations remains high, as the prospective scenario depends on the evolution of demand, especially in emerging economies, on the prospects for the evolution of global supply, in a scenario of uncertainty regarding the implementation and maturation of investments in the sector, in addition to the geopolitical issues that affect the price of this commodity. Nonetheless, despite the high uncertainty inherent to the projections regarding the trajectory of oil prices, the main scenario adopted by the Copom, which assumes unchanged gasoline prices in 2009, remains plausible, but if the current scenario in the oil market persists, it does not seem prudent to completely disregard the hypothesis of price reductions in 2009. However, it bears highlighting that, regardless of the behavior of domestic gasoline prices, the reduction in international oil prices, observed since the second half of 2008, can eventually affect domestic prices both through productive chains, such as the petrochemical, as well as through the potential effect over inflation expectations. The behavior of agricultural commodity prices, which have particularly important impact in the evolution of food costs, such as wheat, soybeans and corn, was heterogeneous since the last Copom meeting, with a predominantly upward trend, though. 
13. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations was based in the following assumptions: 
a) similarly to the March Copom meeting, the projected adjustments for gasoline and bottled gas prices for 2009 were kept unchanged at 0%, 
b) the projected adjustments for fixed telephone for 2009 was kept unchanged at 5.0% relative to the March Copom meeting, while the expected adjustment for electricity prices was reduced to 6.3%, 
c) the projection for regulated prices inflation for 2009, based on individual items, was reduced to 5.0%, down from 5.5% considered at the March Copom meeting. This set of prices, according to data released by the IBGE, corresponded to 29.56% of the total March IPCA, 
d) the projection for regulated prices inflation for 2010 remained unchanged at 4.8%, compared to the March Copom meeting. Such projection is based on the endogenous determination model for regulated prices, which computes, among other factors, seasonal components, foreign exchange rate changes, market prices inflation and the IGP (General Price Index) variation, 
e) the projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, based on the 360-day swap rates, on the benchmark scenario, estimates a 22 bps spread in the fourth quarter of 2009 and 60 bps in the last quarter of 2010. 
14. Regarding fiscal policy, the projections assume the achievement of a public sector primary surplus target of 2.5% of GDP in 2009, in comparison to 3.8% considered at the March Copom meeting. The additional assumptions considered in the previous meeting remained unchanged. 
15. Since the last Copom meeting, according to the median IPCA inflation expectations compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations Office (Gerin), the 2009 IPCA reduced to 4.30%, down from 4.57%. For 2010, inflation expectations reduced to 4.30%, down from 4.50%, collected on the eve of the March Copom meeting. 
16. Considering the hypotheses under the benchmark scenario – which assumes the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$/US$ 2.20 and the Selic rate at 11.25% p.a. during the forecast period – the projection for the 2009 IPCA decreased relative to the figure considered at the March meeting and is significantly below the 4.50% target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). According to the forecast based on the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin on the eve of the Copom meeting – IPCA inflation forecast for 2009 also decreased compared to the figure considered in the previous Copom meeting and is also significantly below the central inflation target. Inflation projection for 2010, based on the benchmark and market scenarios, showed stability relative to the last Copom meeting. On the benchmark scenario, the projection remained significantly below the 4.5% central target, while on the market scenario it is around the central target. 
17. The Copom evaluates that the monetary policy should contribute to the consolidation of a favorable long-term macroeconomic environment. Available data indicate that the pace of domestic demand expansion has significantly cooled since the third quarter of 2008, partially as a reaction to the substantial and generalized economic activity deceleration in other developed and emerging economies. On its turn, the increase in risk aversion and the constraint observed in liquidity conditions prevailing in the international markets observed so far, despite some marginal improvements, continue to impose adjustments in the balance of payments. Nevertheless, since the last Copom meeting, some early signs of a global risk aversion reduction, although still subject to reversion, have arisen, with impacts on both Brazilian assets and commodities, and also influencing financial conditions. However, it bears emphasizing that the trajectory of price indices, in several economies, evidences significant reduction of external inflationary pressures, especially over mature economies, but also over some emerging economies. Consequently, the net impact of the global deceleration over the domestic inflation path continues to be, until the present moment, predominantly benign. The Copom emphasizes that the main challenge of the monetary policy in such context is to ensure that the favorable results obtained over the last years are preserved. 
18. The Copom evaluates that the probability that initially localized inflationary pressures may cause risk to the domestic inflation trajectory continues to diminish. Evidences of substantial accommodation of domestic demand and moderation of pressures over the market of factors, despite remaining subject to uncertainties, should reduce the risk of pass-through of upward pressures stemming from wholesale prices (which, apart from that, have showed deflation over the past few months) over consumer prices. The Committee evaluates that the materialization of such pass-through, as well as the generalization of pressures initially located over consumer prices, still depends critically on economic agents’ inflation expectations. Inflation expectations for 2009 and 2010 retreated since the last Copom meeting to levels below the target, but continue to be closely monitored. Additionally, it is worth noticing that, according to available data, domestic demand behavior should exert less pressure over prices of non-tradable items, such as services, in the upcoming quarters. Anyhow, the Committee reaffirms that it will continue to conduct its actions in order to ensure that the gains obtained in inflation control in recent years become permanent. 
19. The Copom emphasizes, once more, that there are important time lags between the implementation of monetary policy and its effects on economic activity and inflation. Therefore, the evaluation of alternative options for monetary policy should necessarily focus on the forward-looking inflation scenario and its risks, instead of current inflation indices. These considerations become even more relevant in periods surrounded by heightened uncertainty. 
20. Prospects for the evolution of economic activity have improved since last Copom meeting, although industrial data still partially reflects an inventories’ retreat process. In light of the international crisis effects over domestic financial conditions, the credit contribution to sustain domestic demand severely diminished, although there are some early signs of recovery, in particular relative to credit to individuals. The severity of the international crisis negatively influenced consumers and businessmen confidence, but there are also signs of recovery. Under such circumstances, despite some improvement on financial conditions, the resumption of economic activity will strongly depend on real payroll expansion and the effects of governmental transfers that should occur in 2009. In short, the contracting effects of the international financial crisis over the domestic economy dynamism and, consequently, over the context on which monetary policy has been acting, can become persistent, but will not be permanent. These considerations become even more relevant considering the fact that the current monetary policy decisions will have concentrated impacts in the second half of 2009 and in 2010. 
21. The Copom understands that the loss of domestic demand dynamism has generated an increase in the idleness margin of factors, resulting on reduction of inflationary pressures. On the other hand, remaining risks to the inflationary dynamics derive from the trajectory of Brazilian assets prices, despite some recent recovery, associated to the partial recovery of commodities prices, amidst a process of decreasing external funding sources, as well as price adjustment mechanisms that contribute to lengthen inflationary pressures observed in the past, as evidenced by the behavior of the prices of services and regulated items since the beginning of 2009. The balance of those influences over the prospective trajectory of inflation will be crucial to the assessment of the various alternatives available for the monetary policy stance. 
22. International evidence, as well as the Brazilian experience, indicates that high inflation rates leads to increase in risk premiums, both for private and public funding, to the shortening of planning horizons and, consequently, to lower potential economic growth, besides having regressive effects over income distribution. Therefore, the Copom strategy aims to ensure that inflation resumes the 4.5% midpoint target path in 2009, as established by the CMN, and to keep it in a level consistent with the target path for 2010. Such strategy, which should have its results evidenced throughout time, takes into account the time lags in the transmission mechanisms and is the most adequate to deal with the uncertainty inherent to the process of monetary policy formulation and implementation. 
23. The Copom evaluates that, in light of signs of economic activity slowdown, regarding, for instance, industrial production indicators (which were, however, exacerbated, in some sectors, by the continuity of the inventory adjustment process), of data available for the labor market and industrial capacity utilization rates, as well as for businessmen and consumers confidence, and of lower inflation expectations for relevant horizons, the prospects for the materialization of a benign inflation scenario, in which the IPCA would resume evolution in line with the target path, have continued to increase. Indeed, the evolution of the prospective scenario is reflected on inflation projections considered by the Committee, as well as on inflation expectations set by independent analysts. The Committee also understands that the improvement on the inflation prospective scenario for 2009 and 2010 has not been, so far, incorporated into the interest rate forward structure. Nevertheless, although there is still some scope for an easing process, the monetary policy should be cautiously conducted, aiming to assure the convergence of inflation to the targets path. 
24. The Committee understands that the demand slowdown, stimulated by tightening of financial conditions and by the deterioration of the agents’ confidence, although some marginal improvement has been observed in both cases, as well as by the global economic activity contraction, has created a significant idleness margin of production factors that may not be rapidly eliminated in a scenario of gradual recovery of economic activity. Such development should contribute to restrain the inflationary pressures, even in light of the consequences of the adjustment process of the balance of payments and the presence of mechanisms of inflation feedback in the economy, making room for a monetary policy easing process. The Copom assessment over the scope for additional monetary easing, which depends on the inflation prospects relative to the targets path, takes into account the fact that changes on the basic interest rate have effects over activity and inflationary dynamics that accumulate over time. Additionally, the Committee understands that the continuity of the monetary easing process makes urgent the update of aspects, resulting from the long period of high inflation, still embedded within the financial system institutional framework. 
25. In such context, taking into account the macroeconomic scenario and aiming to enlarge the monetary easing process, the Copom has unanimously decided to reduce the Selic rate to 10.25% p.a., without bias. 
26. Under the inflation targeting regime, the Copom guides its decisions according to projected inflation, the analysis of several alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine the forward-looking dynamics for prices, and the balance of risks associated to the projections. After a long period of expansion, domestic demand has started to exert a contractionist influence over economic activity, despite the persistence of incentive factors, such as income growth. Additionally, it bears noticing that inflation expectations for 2009 and 2010 have decreased since the last Copom meeting. On the other hand, the deceleration of global economy has generated downward pressures over wholesale industrial prices, despite the exchange rate adjustment. Under such environment, the monetary policy can be eased without jeopardizing inflation convergence to the targets path. If the risk profile deteriorates in such a manner that implies shifts to the inflation prospective basic scenario considered by the Committee at this moment, the monetary policy stance will be promptly adjusted to the circumstances. 