1. IPCA inflation, after rising in the first four months of 2010, was zero in June and near zero in July (0.01%). As a consequence, inflation accumulated in the first seven months of 2010 reached 3.10%, largely mirroring the behavior of market prices, which increased by 3.55% in the same period. Focusing on market prices, whereas tradable goods showed some stability in the year through July, year-over-year (2.22%, down from 2.26% in 2009), the prices of non-tradable goods increased (4.74%, up from 3.33% in 2009). On its turn, regulated prices decelerated, increasing by 2.03% in the same period, compared to 2.81% in the same period of 2009. The change in the prices of services, whose dynamics tends to show more persistence than that of the prices of goods, shows some increase at the margin, reaching 5.12% in the year through July and 6.90% in twelve months. In short, information available shows improvement in inflation dynamics. 
2. The three main underlying inflation measures calculated by the BCB showed convergent behavior between June and July. The smoothed trimmed means core inflation decreased from 0.40% in June to 0.25% in July, and so did the double weight core inflation (from 0.29% to 0.20%) and the core inflation by exclusion (from 0.36% to 0.24%), respectively. In the year through July, the core inflation by exclusion increased by 3.32%, while smoothed trimmed means and double weight core inflation measures increased 3.14% and 2.98%, respectively. Despite the more favorable dynamics in the recent months, these changes are, respectively, 0.24 p.p., 0.58 p.p. and 0.13 p.p. above the rates prevailing in the same period in 2009. The twelve-month trailing inflation measures, on its turn, reached in July 4.98%, 4.96% and 4.87%, for the core inflation by exclusion, smoothed trimmed means and double weight core inflation measures, respectively, therefore, still standing above the midpoint of the inflation target. After six months above 60%, the June IPCA diffusion index retreated to 57.3%, retreating again in July (48.7%). 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) inflation decreased from 0.34% in June to 0.22% in July. In the year through July, the IGP-DI inflation reached 5.71% (-1.68% in the same period of 2009). Under this comparison basis, the acceleration of the IGP-DI reflected the behavior of its three components. The main component, the Wholesale Price Index (IPA-DI), increased 6.54% in 2010 through July (-4.03% in the same period of 2009). On its turn, the Consumer Price Index - Brazil (IPC-Br) increased 3.42% in the same period (3.01% in 2009), whereas the Civil Construction National Index (INCC) increased 6.09% (2.69% in 2009). The IPA-DI inflation acceleration, under this comparison basis, derived both from the behavior of agricultural and industrial prices. The industrial IPA increased 6.82% (-5.06% in the same period of 2009), and wholesale agricultural prices rose 5.64% (-1.04% in 2009). Furthermore, it should be emphasized that the dynamics of wholesale prices improved, particularly the agricultural prices. Furthermore, the Copom evaluates that the effects of wholesale prices over consumer price inflation will depend, among other factors, on the current and prospective demand conditions, the exposure of each sector to foreign and domestic competition, as well as on the price setters’ expectations for the future inflation path. 
4. The Index of Economic Activity of the BCB (IBC-Br) incorporates estimates for monthly production of the three sectors of the economy, as well as for products taxes and, therefore, it constitutes an important coincident indicator of economic activity. After registering growth for sixteen consecutive months until April, the IBC-Br was stable in May and June. The evolution of the IBC-Br, as well as other indicators of activity, suggests accommodation of the economy in the second quarter, in contrast to the fast pace observed in the first quarter of 2010. However, the outlook for second half of 2010 signals that the economy may grow, but at a pace more consistent with rates evaluated as sustainable in the long term. 
5. According to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, industrial output increased 0.4% in July, after having retreated in the previous three months. Year-over-year, the production increased 8.7% in July 2010, down from 11.1% in June. On a twelve-month trailing basis, after consecutive declines observed since February 2009 until March 2010, industrial production expanded 8.3% (4.5% in May and 6.5% in June), the fourth consecutive increase. On its turn, on a three-month moving average basis, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, industrial output decreased 0.3% in July, after decreasing 0.7% in June. In the first months of this year, the strength of industrial activity was influenced by the international outlook, the businesses’ and households’ expectations, as well as by domestic financial conditions, which have boosted domestic demand. This process was also supported by the rebuilding of inventories and the anticipation of consumption, which, on its turn, partially resulted from the prospects of fiscal stimulus withdrawal. Due to the fall in the month-on-month comparison basis observed throughout the second quarter, the behavior of IBGE industrial output series and its components continues close to that observed in the period prior to the 2008/2009 crisis. Industrial production should resume the upward trend, being this process supported not only by traditional sources of credit, but also by the recovery of capital markets and the performance of public financial institutions, among other factors
6. Among the use categories, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, the most important drivers in July were durable consumer goods and intermediate goods production, increasing by 0.9% in both cases. Semi-durable and non-durable consumer goods production also increased (0.3%), whereas capital goods production decreased 0.2%. On a three-month moving average basis, while intermediate goods slightly increased (0.1%), the production of all other categories decreased: capital goods, -0.7%, durable consumer goods, -0.9%, and semi-durables goods, -0.5 %. It bears highlighting that capital goods production expanded by 28.3% in the year through July, the most remarkable expansion among the use categories, evidencing the consistent recovery of the domestic economy. After the 2008/2009 crisis, the recovery in industrial production dynamism was initially led by the production of durable goods, but it became widespread afterwards, reflecting tax exemption measures, in advanced process of reversion, as well as the easing in financial conditions and the income expansion. The future behavior of industrial production will also depend on the evolution of consumer and businessmen confidence, which should continue to be sources of dynamism, among other factors. 
7. The unemployment rate in the six metropolitan regions covered by the IBGE Monthly Labor Survey (PME) decreased from 7.0% in June to 6.9%in July, 1 p.p. lower than that observed in the same month of last year. According to the seasonally adjusted series, the unemployment rate remained stable in 7.0% for the third consecutive month. After decreasing substantially after the 2008/2009 crisis, the unemployment rate has shown some stability. Average real earnings increased 2.2% in July, month-on-month. Employment, on its turn, increased by 3.5% in June and 3.2% in July, year-over-year, with highlights for the industry sector. As a consequence, real payroll expanded by 8.4% in July, year-over-year, continuing to constitute a key driver for domestic demand growth. Still regarding the labor market, data from the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) indicate that formal employment continues to recover. In fact, 182 thousand jobs were created in July and 1.66 million, in the first seven months of 2010, registering the third best level for July and a record high for job creation in the first seven months of the year for the historical series, which begun in 1985. Similarly, the manufacturing industry, trade, services and civil construction registered the largest balances accumulated since 1985. The most dynamic sector for formal employment continues to be civil construction, where employment expanded 13.9% in the first seven months of the year, year-over-year. 
8. According to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, expanded retail sales remained stable in June, after decreasing by 0.1% in May and 6.7% in April. On a year-over-year basis, the indicator increased 3.4% in June. The three-month moving average of expanded retail sales for the quarter ended in June decreased 1.9%, as compared to the quarter ended in March, according to seasonally adjusted data. On a month-on-month basis, according to seasonally adjusted data, it bears emphasizing the expansion in the office material and equipment (5.4%), other items for personal and domestic use (5.2%), and hyper-, supermarkets and food products (1.5%). Despite the stability shown at the margin, in the next months it is expected that the retail sales trajectory continues to be benefited by governmental transfers, by real payroll growth, by credit expansion and by consumer confidence, 
9. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry, calculated by FGV, without seasonal adjustment, reached 85.4% in August, standing near the levels registered prior to the 2008/2009 crisis. According to the CNI series seasonally adjusted by the BCB, the Nuci decreased to 82.7% in June (from 82.8% in May). According to the seasonally adjusted monthly series calculated by FGV, the Nuci reached 84.9% in August (85.1% in the previous month). Among the four use categories, the Nuci in consumer goods industry (84.9% versus 85.0% in the previous month) and in construction inputs (91.0% versus 91.7% in the previous month) decreased in August, month-on-month. On its turn, the Nuci for capital goods (84.0%) increased 1.3 p.p., while the Nuci for the intermediate goods industry remained stable as compared to the previous month (86.3%). The reduced idleness capacity is the result of economic activity expansion, still not totally offset by the maturity of investment projects. Furthermore, data regarding the absorption of capital goods show recovery year-over-year. The absorption of capital goods decreased 0.2% in July, month-on-month seasonally adjusted, and increased 27.9%, year-over-year, in the year through July, growth reached 31.0%. The production of construction inputs reduced 2.5% in July, month-on-month. According to observed data, it increased 9.5% in July, year-over-year, accumulating a 7.9% growth in twelve months. In short, evidences suggest that the utilization rates have accommodated at high levels. As stressed in previous Copom Minutes, the inflation trajectory is closely linked to current and prospective developments related to the expansion of supply of goods and services to adequately meet demand conditions. 
10. The twelve-month cumulative trade balance reached a US$17.7 billion surplus in July, US$ 9.4 billion lower than the obtained in the same period last year. This total resulted from US$175.8 billion in exports and US$158.0 billion in imports, equivalent to 2.8% and 9.9% changes, respectively, year-over-year. In fact, the greater dynamism of domestic demand relative to the external demand is relevant for the reduction in the trade surplus. The behavior of remittances of profits and dividends contributed to elevate the twelve-month trailing current account deficit, which reached US$43.8 billion in July, equivalent to 2.2% of GDP, up from US$40.9 billion in June. On its turn, foreign direct investment reached US$26.7 billion in the last twelve months through July, equivalent to 1.4% of GDP. 
11. The global economy recovery continues to be led by emerging economies, but since the last Copom meeting evidences have accumulated signaling that this process may be less intense than previously anticipated, in a scenario where the observation of dynamism in the G3 economies (US, Europe and Japan) for 2011 becomes less likely. The US economy shows signs of weakening, evidencing that the current recovery should unfold at a pace slower than previously anticipated, and the possibility of a reversion may not be abandoned. In fact, consumer confidence remains at levels below those prevailing prior to the 2008/2009 crisis, and unemployment remains at a high level, with prospects of slow retreat in the next months. On its turn, the Japanese economy continues to grow at a noticeable slow pace. The recovery in the Euro Area is uncertain, besides being slow and uneven across its economies, partly due to the fiscal consolidation and the difficulties experienced by the credit market. On the other hand, German economy, the most important in the Euro Area, shows some signs of resumption. In short, the uncertainty regarding the sustainability and pace of economic expansion in mature economies increased, mainly in the US and Europe, in a scenario where economic policy stimuli are replaced by contraction measures. As the G3 economies show high idleness for the production factors, a process exacerbated by fiscal concerns, central banks maintain the accommodative monetary policy stance. In this context, after a period of aggressive easing, monetary policy continues unchanged in several countries, but in those economies that were less impacted by the 2008/2009 crisis, which recovered more quickly and intensely, and that adopted more restrictive monetary policy stances, some accommodation has been verified. 
12. Since the last Copom meeting, oil prices have decreased in the spot market and have increased in future markets. Volatility has increased, and the uncertainty concerning the quotations has remained high, as the prospective scenario depends on the evolution of demand, in a context of asymmetric global economic recovery, on the prospects for the evolution of global supply, subject to the pace of investment maturation in the sector, in addition to the geopolitical issues that affect the price of this commodity. Nonetheless, the main scenario adopted by the Copom assumes unchanged domestic gasoline prices in 2010. However, it bears highlighting that, regardless the behavior of domestic gasoline prices, the evolution of international oil prices might affect the domestic economy both through production chains, such as the petrochemical, and through the potential effect over inflation expectations. It bears emphasizing that agricultural commodity prices, which have particularly important impact on the evolution of food costs, have increased since the previous Copom meeting, with highlights for wheat and corn. On their turn, industrial commodity prices also increased in the same period. 
13. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations was based on the following assumptions: 
a) the projected adjustments for gasoline and bottle gas prices for 2010 were kept unchanged at 0%, 
b) the projected adjustment for fixed telephone was kept at 1.6% for 2010 while the projected adjustment for electricity prices increased from 1.5% to 3.7% for 2010, 5 
c) the projection for regulated prices inflation for 2010, based on individual items, was maintained at 3.6%, unchanged relative to the July meeting, according to the benchmark scenario. This set of prices, according to data released by the IBGE, accounted for 29.30% of the total July IPCA, 
d) the projection for regulated prices inflation for 2011 was maintained at 4.4%, on the benchmark scenario. Such projection is based on the endogenous determination model for regulated prices, which computes, among other factors, seasonal components, foreign exchange rate changes, market prices inflation and the IGP (General Price Index) change, and 
e) the projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, based on the 360-day swap rates, on the benchmark scenario, estimates 142 bps and 27 bps spreads in the fourth quarters of 2010 and 2011, respectively. 
14. Regarding fiscal policy, projections assume the achievement of a public sector primary surplus target of 3.3% of GDP in 2010. This percentage can be reduced by up to 0.90 p.p., due to the implementation of the projects linked to the Growth Acceleration Program (PAC), of which 0.44 p.p. refers to amounts to be paid from 2009. Moreover, it is expected that the primary surplus in 2011 would return, without adjustments, to 3.3% of GDP. The additional assumptions considered in the previous meeting remained unchanged. 
15. Since the last Copom meeting, the median of the expectations compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations Group (Gerin) for the 2010 IPCA decreased from 5.42% to 5.07%. For 2011, the median of inflation expectations increased from 4.80% to 4.87%. 
16. The benchmark scenario assumes the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$1.75/US$1.00 and the Selic rate at 10.75% p.a. during the forecast period. Under this scenario, the projection for the 2010 inflation decreased relative to the figure considered at the July Copom meeting, but continues to be above the 4.50% midpoint target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). According to the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin on the eve of the Copom meeting - IPCA inflation forecast for 2010 also decreased, but it still continues above the inflation midpoint target. For 2011, under the benchmark scenario, the projection decreased relative to the figure considered at the July Copom meeting, and it is now around the inflation midpoint target. Under the market scenario, the projection also decreased, and is positioned around the midpoint target. Regarding the first half of 2012, the projection decreased under the benchmark scenario, although the contrary movement was observed under the market scenario, but under both scenarios the projection is around the inflation midpoint target. 
17. The Copom evaluates that the monetary policy should contribute to the consolidation of a favorable longer-term macroeconomic environment. In this respect, the Copom confirms that under the inflation-targeting regime, it guides its decisions according to projected inflation and based on the analysis of several alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine the price dynamics. The Committee also understands that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to reduce uncertainties regarding the future behavior of headline inflation, facilitate the assessment of scenarios by the monetary authority, and help the process of coordination of economic agents’ expectations, mainly price setters’. It is additionally noteworthy that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to reinforce the effects of monetary policy actions, enabling them to affect in a more long-lasting manner the dynamics of headline inflation in the future. Although the Copom recognizes that other actions of macroeconomic policy may influence the price trajectory, it reaffirms its view that it is the responsibility of the monetary policy to remain especially vigilant to guarantee that pressures detected in shorter horizons do not spread to longer horizons. 
18. International evidence, ratified by the Brazilian experience, indicates that high inflation rates lead to the increase of risk premium, both for private and public funding, and to the shortening of planning horizons, both for households and corporate. Consequently, high inflation rates reduce investment and the economic growth potential, in addition to presenting regressive effects on income distribution. Moreover, high inflation rates do not result in any lasting results for economic growth and employment level, on the contrary, they create permanent damage to these variables in the medium and long terms. Therefore, the Copom strategy aims to ensure the convergence of inflation towards the targets path in 2010 and in the next years, which requires that possible deviations from the target path be promptly corrected. Such strategy takes into account the time lags in the transmission mechanism and is the most adequate to deal with the uncertainty inherent to the process of monetary policy formulation and implementation. 
19. As a consequence of the stabilization and correction of unbalances, which determined important structural changes, the process of maturing of the inflation targets stands at advanced stage, and it reflects favorably in the dynamics of neutral interest rate and in the power of monetary policy. Evidences under this respect can be observed, among other factors, through the accomplishment of inflation targets in the last six years, at the same time that real interest rates have reduced. Progress in the financial markets structure, the FX and inflationary risk premium reduction, among other factors, seem to have resulted in significant reduction of the neutral rate. The generation of primary surpluses consistent with the maintenance of decreasing trend for the public debt/GDP ratio also contributed for it. From another point-of-view, some of these developments, combined to others, such as the extension of contract tenures, also suggest that the power of monetary policy in Brazil has increased in the last years. Despite recognizing that a high degree of uncertainty surrounds the calculation of non-observable variables, the Copom considers that the most pessimist estimates regarding the current level of neutral interest rate tend, with significant probability, not to find support in fundamentals. The Committee also considers that there are evidences that the traction of monetary policy increased in the recent past and, compared to what was observed some years ago, currently inflationary pressures are contained with more efficiency by monetary policy actions. 
20. In international markets, risk aversion and volatility have remained high since the last Copom meeting, liquidity remains limited, although the perception of systemic risk shows cooling signs. Concerns about European countries sovereign debt and the deceleration in China remain elevated, while the worries regarding the sustainability of the US economy recovery increased. Even so, the prices of some commodities and Brazilian assets increased and, overall, prospects for external funding for the Brazilian economy remain favorable. Meanwhile, the trajectory of price indices evidences the cooling of inflationary pressures in some relevant economies, whereas prospects of deflation in other economies remain. In this context, the probability of some influence of external disinflation over domestic inflation remains high, although uncertainty about the behavior of asset and commodities prices persists in a context of substantial volatility in international financial markets. Regardless of how these aspects of the international outlook evolve, the Copom reaffirms that the main challenge of monetary policy is to ensure that the favorable results obtained over the last years are preserved. 
21. Prospects for the evolution of domestic economic activity remain favorable, at a less intense rhythm than the observed at the start of the year, as evidenced by data on trade, inventories and industrial production, among others. This assessment is supported by signs of a more moderate expansion of credit supply, both for individuals and corporate, by the fact that consumers and businessmen confidence stands at historically high levels, but with some accommodation at the margin, and by the recent trajectory of inventories in some industrial sectors. The Copom considers, on the other hand, that the dynamism of domestic activity will continue to be benefited, among other factors, by the vigor of labor market, by the remaining effects of fiscal impulses and of policies of public banks and, at a magnitude lower than previously expected, by the global activity. 
22. The Copom considers important to emphasize, once more, that there are time lags between the implementation of monetary policy and its effects on both economic activity and inflation. Therefore, the assessment of alternative stances for monetary policy should necessarily focus on the forward-looking inflationary scenario and its risks, instead of current and past inflation figures. The prospective scenario substantially deteriorated early this year, a dynamic that has reversed more clearly since the last meeting, greatly mirroring less favorable prospects for global activity and the monetary policy actions implemented this year. This assessment finds support, for instance, in the significant reduction of analysts’ projections for the Selic rate, without resulting in unfavorable changes in the median of inflation projections, which, in fact, have substantially reduced for 2010 and increased only marginally for 2011. Moreover, regarding the forward-looking scenario, it is fundamental to highlight that there was retreat in the values projected for inflation by the BCB.
23. Despite recognizing the existence of risks of inflation increase in the short run, the Copom considers that the convergence of inflation to the midpoint target tends to materialize. For that, it finds support in the pertinent consideration that monetary policy acts with time lags over activity and inflation, and that the effects of the adjustment process in the basic interest rate initiated in April 2010 haven’t completely materialized. On the other hand, the Committee ensures that, in case this scenario does not promptly materialize, the monetary policy stance should be adjusted in order to guarantee the convergence between the pace of demand and supply expansions. From another point-of-view, in case inflation does not promptly converge to the midpoint target established by the CMN, monetary policy should act in order to redirect price dynamics and, therefore, ensure the target to be fulfilled. 
24. The intensity and frequency of shocks that both the global and Brazilian economies have undergone in recent years impose additional challenges to the analysis of the prospective scenario. The Committee recognizes an economic environment where uncertainty stands above the usual and the remaining risks for the consolidation of a benign inflationary scenario stem from the domestic outlook. For instance, it bears highlighting those deriving from domestic demand expansion, in a context of narrow idleness margin in the use of production factors. Evidences of this fact come from the real wages gains in some segments and higher pressures on production prices in the recent past. It is plausible to affirm, however, that the factors that support these domestic risks have decelerated. For example, there are signs that the economy has moved towards a trajectory closer to long-term equilibrium and, therefore, the effects of demand pressures and the high level of utilization of the factors on the balance of risks for inflation tend to cool down. 
25. In short, since the last meeting, the risks to the materialization of a benign inflationary scenario, in which inflation would remain consistent with the inflation targets path, have decreased, partially due to the reversion of substantial part of stimuli introduced during the international financial crisis of 2008/09 and, in particular, to the basic rate adjustment implemented since April. Another contributing factor for that, in the same period, was the higher probability of deceleration, and even reversion, of the already slow process of recovery of G3 economies. As a consequence, the influence of the international outlook over domestic inflation behavior shows a disinflationary bias. 
26. Under these considerations, the Copom unanimously decided to maintain the Selic rate at 10.75% p.a., without bias. While the Copom does not expect the inflation level recorded in the last months to be kept in the near future, it observes the continuation of the process of risk reduction for the inflationary scenario unfolding since the June Copom meeting. In this context, the Committee judges that, at this moment, the maintenance of the basic interest rate at the level set in the July meeting provides adequate conditions to ensure the convergence of inflation to the targets path. 
27. Domestic demand is robust, largely due to the effects of stimulus factors, such as income growth and credit expansion. Moreover, although they tend to cool, fiscal and credit incentives have been provided to the economy in recent quarters, and still should contribute for the consolidation of activity expansion and, hence, for the maintenance of the idleness margin of factors at low levels. The effects of these stimuli, however, are counterbalanced by the effects of the reversal of substantial share of the initiatives taken during the recent 2008/2009 international financial crisis, by those referring to the significant worsening of the global economy prospects and especially by those stemming from the monetary policy stance change. These elements are an important part of the context in which future monetary policy decisions will be taken, aiming to ensure a timely convergence of inflation to the targets path.