1. After recording 0.47% in May, monthly inflation measured by IPCA reached 0.15% in June. As a consequence, twelve-month trailing inflation reached 6.71% in June 2011 (6.55% in May and 6.51% in April), 1.87 p.p. above inflation registered in the twelve months through June 2010. The inflation elevation in this period reflected the behavior of both market prices, which increased 7.14% (5.11% in the same period of 2010), and regulated prices, which increased 5.70% (4.21% in the same period of 2010). Regarding market prices, it bears highlighting that tradable goods inflation reached 6.26% (2.98% in the same period of 2010), while inflation related to non-tradable goods increased 7.89% (7.06% in the same period of 2010). Services price inflation continues at high levels, reaching 0.60% in June, after 0.59% in May. In the twelve-month period through June 2011, it reached 8.75%, the highest level since September 1997. In short, the set of available information suggests persistence in the price increase observed in 2010, process led by market prices, which, in part, reflects in the fact that services inflation, which presents significant inertia, remains at high levels. 
2. In the first half of 2011, IPCA increased 3.87%, 0.78p.p. above the inflation observed in the same period of 2010, with increases of 3.71% in market prices and of 4.25% in regulated prices. The main contributors were education, personal expenses and clothing, which increased 7.45%, 5.10% and 4.36%, respectively, in the first six months of 2011, compared to 5.56%, 4.17% and 3.26%, respectively, in the same period of 2010. These items were responsible for 1.35 p.p. of headline inflation in the period. On its turn, the 3.11% recorded for food and beverage inflation was 1.43p.p below the level observed for this group in 2010H1. Notwithstanding, in the twelve months ended in June, food and beverage prices play a relevant role in the dynamics of headline inflation, accumulating 8.90% in June (8.20% in May), reflecting, in part, domestic and external supply shocks, heightened by the high liquidity environment in international financial markets and by global demand increase. 
3. The three main underlying inflation measures calculated by the BCB performed similarly to headline inflation: while inflation in the twelve months through June increased, the average of the monthly rates retreated between April and June. The smoothed trimmed means core inflation increased to 0.54% in June from 0.64% in May and 0.60% in April. The double weight core inflation, after registering 0.68% in April, decreased to 0.59% in May and to 0.42% in June, while the core inflation by exclusion totaled 0.56% in June, up from 0.54% in May and 0.52% in April. Therefore, the average change of the three core measures retreated to 0.51% in June, down from 0.59% in May and 0.60% in April. In the twelve-month period until June, the three core measures registered 6.01%, 6.82% and 6.51%, respectively, compared to 5.86%, 6.68% and 6.30% in May, and 5.84%, 6.66% and 6.32% in April. The IPCA diffusion index, which had reached 59.38% in April, increased to 64.84% in May, but decreased in June to 58.85%, showing, at the margin, lesser spreading of inflation. 
4. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) inflation registered deflation of 0.13% in June, compared to inflation of 0.01% in May and 0.50% in April. In the twelve-month period through June it accumulated 8.63%, up from 5.07% registered in the same period through June 2010. Under this criterion, the index has been slowing since December 2010, when it recorded 11.30% change. Inflation measured by its main component, the Wholesale Price Index (IPA-DI), reached 9.61% in twelve months through June, reflecting an increase of 6.54% in the industrial IPA and 19.38% in the agricultural IPA. The breakdown according to the production phase shows that raw material prices accumulated 22.68% change, while the prices of intermediate goods and final goods increased 5.44% and 4.58%, respectively, following the same comparison basis. Inflation measured by the Consumer Price Index (IPC-DI), another component of the IGP-DI, recorded 6.40% in the twelve months through June 2011, above the 4.93% recorded until June 2010. According to the same comparison basis, the Civil Construction National Index (INCC), component with the lowest weight in the IGP-DI, increased 7.75% (6.48% in June 2010). The Producer Price Index/Manufacturing Industry (IPP/IT), calculated by the IBGE, which measures the industry price level excluding freights and taxes, registered 0.55% deflation in May, compared to inflation of 0.28% in April and 0.39% in March. In twelve months, this index decreased to 5.60% in May, from 6.68% in April. As emphasized in previous Copom Minutes, the Copom evaluates that the effects of wholesale prices over consumer price inflation will depend, among other factors, on the current and prospective demand conditions, the exposure of each sector to external and domestic competition, as well as on the price setters’ expectations for the future inflation path. 
5. The Economic Activity Index of the BCB (IBC-Br) incorporates estimates for the monthly production of the three sectors of the economy, as well as for taxes on production, constituting, therefore, an important coincident indicator of economic activity. Considering seasonally adjusted data, the IBC-Br grew 0.2% in May, after increasing 0.4% for three consecutive months (from February to April). As consequence, the index increased 1.3% in the quarter ended in May, compared to the previous quarter. For the IBC-Br accumulated in twelve months, the moderation in the growth rate trend persists, reducing to 5.3% in May from 5.7% in April. The Services Confidence Index (ICS), from FGV, retreated 1.4% in June, after the same reduction in May and increase of 3.0% in April. Therefore, the level of this index in June stood 0.1% above that measured in June 2010 and 0.7% below the average index of 2010. 
6. Industrial activity showed expansion in May, with a 1.3% increase in the industrial output, month-on-month, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, after recording a decrease of 1.2% in April and an increase of 0.3% in March. As a consequence, industrial output reached a new record high in May. The three-month moving average growth rate reached 0.2% in the period from March to May, standing at a level below the 0.4% growth measured in the period from February to April. Year-over-year, industrial output increased 2.7% in May and in the last twelve months, output increased 4.5% in May, down from 5.4% in April, continuing the process of growth moderation. Since December 2008, month with the lowest output level during the 2008/09 crisis, the growth accumulated until May 2011 reached 26.8%. The industry real earnings have shown similar evolution.The post-crisis recovery dynamics was partially supported by the growth of industrial activity financing by public financial institutions. 
7. Among the industry use categories, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, month-on-month, capital goods, intermediate goods and durable consumer goods increased in May, respectively, 1.7%, 1.5% and 2.7%, whereas the production of non-durable and semi-durable consumer goods remained stable. In the twelve months through May 2011, intermediate goods output increased 4.7%, durable consumer goods output grew 2.4% and non-durable and semi-durable consumer goods output increased 2.3%. According to the same comparison basis, capital goods industry activity growth is the highest among use categories, recording an 11.5% increase. Such performance evidences the investment robustness, a relevant factor for economic recovery in the post-crisis period. 
8. The unemployment rate in the six metropolitan regions covered by the IBGE Monthly Labor Survey (PME), according to observed data, decreased to 6.2% in June, down from 6.4% in May, compared to the 7.0% level registered in June 2010. After reaching 9.0% in March 2009, the observed data not only significantly reduced until June 2011, but reached a record low for the month since the start of the series in March 2002. The seasonally adjusted rate registered 6.1% in June, a 0.1 p.p. increase compared to May. Employment, measured by the number of employed workers in the six main metropolitan regions, year-over-year, increased 2.3% in June, after an expansion of 2.5% in May. Data from the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) indicate that in June 215.4 thousand jobs were created (213.0 thousand in June 2010), with expansion of formal jobs in all the eight sectors of economic activity. Agriculture and Services were the sectors that mostly contributed for the formal employment increase in June. According to PME, real average earnings observed in June increased 0.5% month-on-month and 4.0% year-over-year. As a consequence, real payroll, considering real average earnings in the six metropolitan regions, expanded 6.2% in June, year-over-year, after recording an increase of 6.6% in May, continuing to constitute a key driver for the maintenance of domestic demand growth. 
9. According to the retail monthly survey (PMC) from IBGE, expanded retail sales increased 12.8% in May, year-over-year, after recording a 12% growth in April and a 2.7% decrease in March, according to the same comparison basis. According to the seasonally adjusted series, expanded retail sales showed month-on-month increase of 1% in May, after expanding 1.2% in April and 1.9% in March. Therefore, the twelve-month accumulated growth rate reached 10.5% in May, up from 10.2% observed in the two previous months. According to the last two comparison bases, all ten sectors surveyed expanded in May, with highlights, in terms of growth, to furniture and appliances (17.2%), equipment and materials for office, computer and communication (16.7%) and construction inputs (13.9%). In the next months, the retail trajectory will continue to be benefited by governmental transfers, by the pace of growth of real payroll, by the consumer confidence and by credit expansion. 
10. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry, calculated by FGV, without seasonal adjustment, kept unchanged in 84.1% between May and June. These values for May and June are, respectively, 0.5p.p. and 1.0p.p. lower than the levels observed in the same period of 2010. According to the seasonally adjusted monthly series calculated by FGV, the Nuci retreated to 84.3% in June (same level observed in March 2011), after recording 84.4% in April and May. The Nuci is higher at the construction inputs (87.2%) and intermediate goods (86.3%) sectors. At the margin, the Nuci in the construction inputs sector remained stable, in the intermediate and consumer goods sectors there were increases (0.2 p.p, and 0.3p.p., respectively), while in the capital goods sector, the Nuci decreased 0.1p.p.. According to the Confederation of National Industry (CNI) data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, the Nuci in May reached 82.4%, up from 82.1% in April. In fact, installed capacity utilization rates have shown relative stability, at high levels, reflecting the recent expansion in economic activity, whose effects have not totally been offset by the maturity of investment projects. In this sense, the absorption of capital goods grew 18.7% in the last twelve months through May, while the production of construction inputs for civil construction increased 6.7%. As stressed in previous Copom Minutes, the inflation trajectory is closely linked to current and prospective developments related to the expansion of supply of goods and services to adequately meet demand conditions. 
11. The trade balance result in the last twelve months increased from US$23.1 billion in May to US$25.3 billion in June. This result stemmed from US$231 billion in exports and US$205.8 billion in imports, equivalent to 34.1% and 34.5% changes, respectively. The current account deficit accumulated in twelve months changed from US$48.9 billion in April to US$51 billion in May, equivalent to 2.29% of GDP. On its turn, foreign direct investment reached US$64.1 billion in the twelve months through May, equivalent to 2.88% of GDP, exceeding the needs for external funding. 
12. The global economy recovery follows different speeds and asymmetrical inflation pressures. The evidences show activity moderation at the margin, partially reflecting increased global uncertainty, the loss of dynamism in the US recovery process, the high oil price, as well as the effects of monetary tightening in important emerging economies. In fact, the compound leading indicator released by the Organization for Economic Co- Operation and Development (OECD), for example, signaled world recovery continuity in May, but with moderation, despite still potential, in the major economies. On the other hand, the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) for the global economy, which shows the industry and service sector activity level, after reaching, in May, 52.7, reduced to 52.2 in June, reaching the second lowest level since the start of global recovery (August 2009). The disaggregated PMI indicators evidence lower dynamism in the US and in the Euro Area (with contraction of economic activity in Italy and Spain). The macroeconomic prospects for the Euro Area continue to exhibit strong asymmetries, because while some economies remain impacted by the insolvency risks and subject to strong fiscal adjustments, the pace of expansion remains strong in other regions, like Germany. Regarding the last Copom meeting, the market perception about the fiscal situation in the Euro Area and, in particular, its implications on the regional financial system - even after the release of stress tests - showed significant deterioration, and uncertainties related to US debt issues remain. Regarding monetary policy, mature economies continued to show accommodative monetary stances. Despite the recent inflation acceleration, inflation rate cores persist at moderate levels in the G3 group (US, Euro Area and Japan). For the emerging countries, there are widespread inflationary pressures and, since the last Copom meeting, there was continuity of monetary tightening in several economies. In particular, the People’s Bank of China raised banks’ reserve requirements once again, totaling nine increases in reserve requirements and five increases in the reference interest rates since October 2010. 
13. Brent oil prices showed volatility and remains above US$115. This price level is consistent with a framework of apparent strengthening of global demand, as well as of political instability in some countries of the Middle East and North Africa, despite the decreasing intensity of conflicts. It bears highlighting that the geopolitical complexity that involves the oil sector tends to heighten price volatility, which is also a reflex of the low predictability of some global demand components and of the dependency of supply growth on long term risky investment projects. Regarding the other commodities, it is noteworthy the moderation of agricultural and metallic commodities prices, after consecutive months of relevant increases. In particular, spot prices of iron ore traded in China fluctuated at levels similar to those valid at the beginning of the year. Over the recent months, the food price index, calculated by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), which considers 55 items, has presented some stability, but remains at high levels. In recent past, the high volatility observed in commodities prices was strongly impacted by the abundant global liquidity, in a context where financial markets adjust to new expectations of demand growth and to FX markets volatility. 
14. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to the new set of available information. The scenario considered in the simulations was based on the following assumptions: 
a) the projected adjustments for gasoline accumulated in 2011 remained at 4.0%, considered in the June Copom meeting, including, therefore, partial reversal of the 6.1% increase occurred up to June, the adjustments for bottled gas prices, for the same period, were kept unchanged at 0%, 
b) the projected adjustment for fixed telephone accumulated in 2011 reduced to 0.9%, down from 2.9% considered in the June Copom meeting, whereas the one for electricity rate increased to 4.1%, up from 2.8% considered in the previous meeting, 
c) the projection for regulated prices inflation accumulated in 2011, based on individual items, according to the benchmark scenario, increased to 4.9%, up from 4.6% considered in the June meeting. This set of prices, according to data released by the IBGE, accounted for 29.08% of the total June IPCA, 
d) the projection for regulated prices inflation accumulated in 2012, according to the benchmark scenario, increased to 4.4%, up from 4.3% considered in the June meeting. Such projection is based on endogenous determination models for regulated prices, which compute, among other factors, seasonal components, foreign exchange rate changes, market prices inflation and the IGP (General Price Index) change, and 
e) the projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, based on the 360-day swap rates, on the benchmark scenario, estimates 44 bps and -46 bps spreads in the fourth quarters of 2011 and 2012, respectively. 
15. Regarding fiscal policy, projections assume the achievement of the public sector primary surplus target of R$117.9 billion (around 2.9% of GDP), without adjustments, in 2011 (according to parameters contained in the Budget Guidelines Law - 2011). Moreover, a primary surplus of R$139.8 billion (or around 3.1% of GDP) is considered for 2012, according to Budget Guidelines Law Project - 2012 parameters, including the effect of the minimum wage increase projected for 2012. 
16. The set of projections incorporated the estimated effects of the reserve requirements changes announced in December 2010. 
17. Since the last Copom meeting, the median of the expectations compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations and Special Studies Department (Gerin) for the 2011 IPCA increased to 6.31% from 6.22%. For 2012, the median of inflation expectations moved from 5.10% to 5.20%. Specifically for banks, asset managers and other institutions (real sector companies, brokers, consultancies and others), the medians for the 2011 IPCA changed from 6.21%, 6.22% and 6.27% to 6.28%, 6.38% e 6.31%, respectively. For 2012, the medians changed from 5.00%, 5.40% and 5.00% to 5.01%, 5.40% and 5.05%, in the same order. 
18. The benchmark scenario assumes the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$1.60/US$1.00 and the Selic rate at 12.25% p.a. during the forecast period. Under this scenario, the projection for the 2011 inflation slightly increased relatively to the figure considered at the June Copom meeting, and it stands above the 4.50% midpoint target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). According to the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin in the period immediately prior to the Copom meeting - IPCA inflation forecast for 2011 also slightly increased and stands above the inflation midpoint target. For 2012, the projection remained stable in both the benchmark and the market scenarios, and therefore remained above the midpoint target in both scenarios. For 2013H1 inflation, the projection increased in the benchmark scenario and remained stable in the market scenario, remaining around the midpoint target in both scenarios. In an alternative scenario, which considers the maintenance of the exchange rate, during the forecast period, at levels observed in the recent past and the interest rate path collected by Gerin, projected inflation is above the target for 2011 and for 2012, and around the target for 2013H1. 
19. The Copom evaluates that monetary policy should contribute to the consolidation of a favorable longer-term macroeconomic environment. In this respect, the Copom reassures that, under the inflation-targeting regime, it guides its decisions according to BCB projected inflation and based on the analysis of alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine prices dynamics. The Committee also understands that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to reduce uncertainties regarding the future behavior of headline inflation, facilitate the assessment of scenarios by the monetary authority, as well as help the process of coordination of economic agents’ expectations, particularly price setters’. Additionally, it is noteworthy that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to intensify the effects of monetary policy actions, enabling them to affect in a more long-lasting manner the dynamics of headline inflation in the future. Although the Copom recognizes that other actions of macroeconomic policy may influence the price trajectory, it reaffirms its view that it is the responsibility of the monetary policy to remain especially vigilant to guarantee that pressures detected in shorter horizons do not spread to longer horizons. 
20. International evidence, ratified by the Brazilian experience, indicates that high inflation rates lead to the increase in risk premium, both for private and public funding, and to the shortening of planning horizons, both for households and companies. Consequently, high inflation rates reduce investment and economic growth potential, in addition to presenting regressive effects on income distribution. Moreover, high inflation rates do not originate any lasting results for economic and employment growth, on the contrary, they create permanent damage to these variables in the medium and long terms. Therefore, the strategy adopted by the Copom aims to ensure the convergence of inflation towards the targets path, which requires that deviations from the target path be promptly corrected. Such strategy takes into account the time lags in the transmission mechanism and is the most adequate to deal with the uncertainty inherent to the process of monetary policy formulation and implementation. 
21. As a consequence of the stabilization and correction of unbalances, which determined important structural changes, the process of maturing of the inflation targeting regime stands at an advanced stage, and it reflects favorably in the dynamics of neutral interest rate and in the power of monetary policy. Evidences under this respect can be observed, among other factors, through the accomplishment of inflation targets in the last seven years, at the same time that real interest rates have reduced. Progress in the financial markets structure, the reduction of both FX and inflationary risk premia, among other factors, seem to have determined significant reduction in the neutral rate. The generation of primary surpluses consistent with the maintenance of the decreasing trend for the public debt/GDP ratio also contributed for it. From another point-of-view, some of these developments, combined to others, such as the extension of contract tenures, also suggest that the power of monetary policy in Brazil has been increasing in the last years, despite the substantial uncertainty that surrounds the calculation of non-observable variables. The Committee also considers that there are evidences that the traction of monetary policy increased in the recent past and, compared to what was observed some years ago, currently inflationary pressures are contained with more efficiency by monetary policy actions. 
22. The Copom observes that, additional deterioration has occurred in international markets since the last meeting, with increase in volatility and risk aversion, mostly fueled by the extraordinary levels of liquidity and increasing uncertainties regarding the recovery of global activity. In this period, the concerns about European countries` sovereign and banking debts increased, including central economies, as well as those related to the possible slowdown of economic activity in China. Prices of important commodities retreated, mainly agricultural and, at the same time, some stability in the US currency was observed. In general, however, the prospects for Brazilian economy external funding remain favorable. From another point-of-view, the price indices path shows clear dissemination of inflationary pressures in the main economies. 
23. The Copom evaluates that, although ongoing moderation of domestic demand growth is observed, prospects for economic activity are favorable. This assessment is supported by signs that, despite showing some cooling, point to the fact that the expansion of credit supply tends to persist, both for individuals and corporate, and by the fact that consumers and businessmen confidence stand at historically high levels, notwithstanding some accommodation at the margin, among other factors. The Copom considers, additionally, that the dynamism of domestic activity will continue to be benefited by the vigor of labor market, mirrored in historically low unemployment rates and substantial growth of wages. 
24. The Copom evaluates that the inflation prospective scenario has shown more favorable signs since the last meeting. In the last quarter of 2010 and in the first quarter of 2011, inflation was strongly and negatively impacted by domestic and external supply shocks. Evidences suggest that consumer prices have already incorporated the direct effects of these shocks. Also relevant were the direct effects of the atypical concentration of regulated prices adjustments in the first quarter of the year, which, in specific cases, shows signs of reversal. The Committee considers that these effects shall still impact indirectly consumer prices dynamics, among other mechanisms, through inertia. At the same time, it evaluates, as relevant, risks derived from the persistence of the mismatch between supply and demand growth rates, despite the signs that this mismatch tends to retreat. Moreover, it highlights the narrow idleness margin of the production factors, especially labor force, and analyzes that, in such circumstances, a very important risk stems from the possibility of concession of nominal wages increases incompatible with productivity growth and its negative impacts over inflation dynamics. At the end of last year and at the start of this year, the risks associated to commodities prices trajectory in international markets were key to the prospective scenario. However, since April these prices have shown some accommodation. 
25. The Copom forecasts two distinct moments for inflation trajectory, according to the 2011 main scenario. In this quarter, inflation accumulated in twelve months tends to remain at levels above those observed in the second quarter. This, in great part, is explained by the high inertia that stemmed from 2010, by the duration of the shocks that hit the economy at the end of last year, extending to the first quarter of this year, which reflect in the fact that the projections of inflation for the two-month period between July and August 2011 point to average monthly inflation rates above those registered in the same period in 2010. However, from the fourth quarter on, the main scenario indicates a downward trend for the inflation accumulated in twelve months, moving toward the target direction. 
26. The Copom reaffirms that the inflation main scenario considers the materialization of its trajectories regarding fiscal variables. It bears highlighting that the generation of primary surpluses in line with the hypotheses considered for inflation projections, in addition to contributing to reduce the mismatches between supply and demand growth rates, will strengthen the reduction trend in the public debt/GDP ratio. It bears highlighting that, since the beginning of this year, important decisions have been taken and implemented, which reinforce the view that a fiscal consolidation process is in place. 
27. The Copom highlights that its main scenario for inflation also considers moderation in credit expansion, for which macroprudential and conventional monetary policy actions recently adopted contribute. Still about this market, the Committee considers opportune the introduction of initiatives with the aim of moderating the concession of subsidies regarding credit operations. 
28. In short, the Copom recognizes an economic environment in which an increasing and above-than-usual uncertainty level prevails, and identifies risks to the materialization of a scenario where inflation promptly converges to the midpoint target. Since the last Copom meeting, at the external outlook, evidences have shown additional moderation in the recovery process experienced by the G3 economies and, in another perspective, have still revealed ambiguous influence over the behavior of domestic inflation. Regarding the domestic outlook, macroprudential actions and, mainly, conventional monetary policy actions recently implemented will still have their effects incorporated to price dynamics, a process that tends to intensify in this half of the year. Although growing and elevated uncertainties that surround the global outlook and, at a minor magnitude, the domestic one, do not allow the clear identification of the degree of persistence of recent inflationary pressures, the Committee evaluates that the inflation prospective scenario shows more favorable signs. 
29. In this context, assessing the prospective scenario and the balance of risks for inflation, the Copom unanimously decided, at the moment, to increase the Selic target to 12.50%, without bias.
30. Domestic demand is robust, largely due to the effects of stimulus factors, such as income growth and credit expansion. Moreover, although recent initiatives point to restraint in public sector expenditures in the first half, fiscal and credit incentives had been previously provided to the economy, and shall still contribute for the activity expansion and, hence, for the maintenance of the idleness level of factors at low levels. The effects of these stimuli, however, are counterbalanced by the effects of the reversal of initiatives taken during the recent 2008/09 financial crisis, by the recent macroprudential actions and, mainly, by conventional monetary policy actions taken this year. These elements and the fiscal and quasi fiscal developments are an important part of the context in which future monetary policy decisions will be taken, aiming to ensure the timely convergence of inflation to the targets path. 