1. After recording 0.37% in August, monthly inflation measured by the IPCA reached 0.53% in September. As a consequence, twelve-month inflation through September 2011 reached 7.31% (7.23% in August), 2.61 p.p. above inflation registered in the same period of 2010. The inflation elevation in this period reflected the behavior of both market prices, which increased 7.79% (5.17% in the twelve months through September 2010), and regulated prices, which increased 6.17% (3.58% in the same period of 2010). Regarding market prices, it bears highlighting that tradable goods inflation reached 6.52% while inflation related to non-tradable goods increased 8.88%. Services price inflation continues at high levels, with monthly growth of 0.50% in August and 0.51% in September, increasing the twelve-month accumulated inflation to 9.03%, the highest level since September 1997. In short, the set of available information suggests some persistence in the increase of prices, process led by market prices, which, in part, reflects the fact that services inflation remains at high levels. 
2. The underlying inflation measures calculated by the BCB, in general, showed similar trend to that of headline inflation, as that there was an increase in the average of monthly changes and in twelve-month accumulated inflation. The smoothed trimmed means core inflation increased from 0.41% in July to 0.55% in August and 0.58% in September, while the non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation increased from 0.28% in July to 0.33% in August and 0.55% in September. Similarly, the double weight core inflation, after registering 0.38% in July, increased to 0.39% in August and to 0.51% in September. At the same time, core inflation by exclusion, which excludes 10 items of food at home and fuel, totaled 0.45% in September, up from 0.32% in August and 0.33% in July, while core inflation by exclusion of regulated prices and of household food changed to 0.44% in September, from 0.45% in August and 0.40% in July. Therefore, the average change of these five core measures changed from 0.36% in July to 0.41% in August and 0.51% in September. In the twelve months through September, the average variation of the five core measures registered 6.87%, up from 6.73% in August and 6.53% in July. 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) inflation registered inflation of 0.75% in September, up from 0.61% in August. In the twelve months through September, the change reached 7.45%, 0.50 p.p. below the registered in September 2010. Under this criterion, the index has been slowing down since December 2010, when it recorded 11.30% change. Inflation measured by its main component, the Wholesale Price Index (IPA), reached 7.52% in twelve months through September, reflecting an increase of 5.30% in the industrial IPA and of 14.22% in the agricultural IPA. The breakdown according to the production phase shows that raw material prices accumulated 14.80% change, while the prices of intermediate goods and final goods increased 4.79% and 4.64%, respectively, according to the same comparison basis. Inflation measured by the Consumer Price Index (IPC), another component of the IGP-DI, recorded 7.13% in the twelve months through September 2011, above the 4.36% recorded in 2010. According to the same comparison basis, the Civil Construction National Index (INCC), component with the lowest weight in the IGP-DI, increased 7.68%. On its turn, the Producer Price Index/Manufacturing Industry (IPP/IT), calculated by the IBGE, which measures the industry price level excluding freights and taxes, registered 0.20% inflation in August, up from 0.03% in July. In twelve months, the index inflation decreased to 4.28% in August, down from 4.83% in July. 
4. The IBGE (Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics) released information on 2011Q2 GDP, which grew by 3.1% against the same quarter of last year (yoy), and 0.8% quarter-over-quarter, according to seasonally adjusted data. The GDP growth accumulated in the last four quarters reached 4.7% over the previous four quarters. From the aggregated supply perspective, there was deceleration in all the sectors of activity, year-over-year. The services sector grew 3.4% (4.0% in Q1), for industry, the rate of expansion in the second quarter retreated to 1.7% (3.5% in Q1), while in agriculture growth was zero (3.1% in Q1). From the aggregated demand point-of-view, household consumption expanded 5.5%, government consumption, 2.5%, and gross fixed capital formation (GFKF), 5.9%, year-over-year. At the same time, imports grew 14.6% and exports, 6.0%, according to the same comparison basis. The accumulated contribution of domestic demand to GDP growth in four quarters continued to be moderate. In fact, it shifted from 10.3 p.p. in 2010Q4, to 8.8 p.p. in the 2011Q1 and 6.6 p.p. in 2011Q2, while the negative contribution of the external sector decreased from 2.8 p.p., to 2.5 p.p. and to 1.8 p.p., respectively. 
5. The Economic Activity Index of the BCB (IBC-Br) incorporates estimates for the monthly production of the three sectors of the economy, as well as for taxes on production, and constitutes, therefore, an important coincident indicator of economic activity. Considering seasonally adjusted data, the IBC-Br declined 0.5% in August, after increasing 0.3% in July and decreasing 0.3% in June. Thus, the quarterly growth rate between June and August stood at -0.2%. For the period June-August 2010, there was growth of 2.5%. The rate of growth accumulated in twelve months decreased from 4.4% in July to 4.0% in August and since December 2010, it has been moderating. The Services Confidence Index (ICS), from FGV, decreased 0.4% in September, after falling 1.3% in August. Thus, the level of the indicator was 2.3% below the September 2010 level, and 1.7% below the average level of 2010. 
6. Industrial activity fell 0.2% in August, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, after slight increase of 0.3% in July and a decline of 1.2% in June. According to the quarterly moving average, there was a decline of 0.4% between June and August, after growing 0.1% between May and July. Year-over-year, industrial output increased 1.8% in August, while in the last twelve months, there was an increase of 2.3%, compared to 2.9% registered in July, continuing the process of growth moderation. Compared to December 2008, month with the lowest output level during the 2008/09 crisis, the accumulated growth until August 2011 reached 24.8%. According to data from the National Industry Confederation (CNI), earnings in the manufacturing industry recorded 6.7% real growth in the twelve months until August, while the number of worked hours worked increased 1.9%. 
7. Among the industry use categories, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, there was increase of 0.9% in the production of capital goods in August, and declines of 2.9% in the durable consumer goods, 0.8% in non-durable and semi-durable consumer goods and 0.2% in intermediate goods. In the twelve months through August, intermediate goods output increased 1.9%, durable consumer goods output grew 1.5% and non-durable and semi-durable consumer goods output increased 1.3%. According to the same comparison basis, capital goods industry recorded the highest growth activity level among use categories, recording a 6.8% increase. 
8. The unemployment rate in the six metropolitan regions covered by the IBGE Monthly Labor Survey (PME), according to observed data, remained unchanged in August at 6.0%, compared to the 6.7% level registered in August 2010. After reaching 9.0% in March 2009, the observed data reduced significantly and reached a record low for August, since the start of the series in March 2002. The seasonally adjusted unemployment rate remained unchanged at 5.9% in August. The employment, measured by the number of employed workers in the six main metropolitan regions, year-over-year, increased 2.2% in August, after an expansion of 2.1% in July. Data from the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) indicate that in September 209.1 thousand jobs were created (246.9 thousand in September 2010), with expansion of formal jobs in seven out of the eight sectors of economic activity. Services and manufacturing industry were the sectors that mostly contributed for the formal employment increase in the month. According to PME, real average earnings increased 0.5% in August month-on-month, and accumulated 3.2% growth in twelve months. As a consequence, real payroll, considering real average earnings in the six metropolitan regions, important factor in sustaining growth in domestic demand, expanded 5.6% in August, year-over-year. 
9. According to the retail monthly survey (PMC) from IBGE, expanded retail sales increased 5.3% in August, year-over-year, after recording 7.2% growth in July and 9.5% in June, according to the same comparison basis. According to the seasonally adjusted series, expanded retail sales decreased by 2.3% in August, month-on-month, after showing some stability in the previous two months. The twelve-month accumulated growth rate reached 9.8% in August, down from 10.5% in July and 10.9% in June. According to this comparison basis, all ten sectors surveyed showed expansion in the volume of sales, with highlights for equipment and supplies for office, computer and communication (18.6%), furniture and appliances (17.8%), vehicles, motorcycles, parts and pieces (12.2%) and construction inputs (12.0%). In the coming months, the retail trajectory will continue to be positively influenced by governmental transfers, by the growth pace of real payroll, by the consumer confidence level and by moderate credit expansion. 
10. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry, calculated by the FGV, without seasonal adjustment, registered 84.4% in September, up from 84.0% in August. Thus, capacity utilization was 1.4 p.p. and 1.5 p.p. lower than the levels observed in August and September 2010, respectively. According to the seasonally adjusted monthly series calculated by the FGV, the Nuci remained unchanged at 83.6% in September, compared to the level recorded in August, the lowest level since November 2009. Capacity utilization is higher in the construction inputs sector (90.5%) and intermediate goods (85.2%). In the sector of capital goods, the Nuci stood at 84.9%, while in the sector of consumer goods it stood at 83.4%. According to the Confederation of National Industry (CNI) data, seasonally adjusted by the BCB, the Nuci increased from 81.8% in July to 82.1% in August. The rates of capacity utilization have been retreating, reflecting, in part, the moderation in the pace of production growth and the maturity of investments. In fact, the absorption of capital goods grew 11.6% in the last twelve months through August (14.1% until July), while the production of construction inputs increased 5.0% (5.5 % until July). 
11. The trade balance surplus in the last twelve months increased from US$ 28.5 billion in August to US$ 30.5 billion in September. This result stemmed from US$247 billion in exports and US$216.5 billion in imports, equivalent to 32.7% and 27.8% changes, respectively, in the last twelve months through September. The current account deficit accumulated in twelve months increased from US$47.9 billion in July to US$ 49.7 billion in August, equivalent to 2.13% of GDP. On its turn, foreign direct investment reached US$75.4 billion in the twelve months through August, equivalent to 3.22% of GDP, exceeding largely the needs for external funding. 
12. Global economy faces a period of uncertainty far above the usual, with significant deterioration in growth prospects in advanced countries and moderation of activity in emerging countries. In this environment, risks to global financial stability, of fiscal and financial nature, increased, among other factors, due to exposure of international banks to sovereign debt of countries with fiscal imbalances, especially in the Euro Area. In this region, since the last Copom meeting, there was deterioration in the sovereign and banking debt rating. It should be noted that the levels of risk aversion - for example, those measured by credit default swaps (CDS) of banks in the Euro Area - are now comparable to those observed during the 2008/2009 crisis. From another perspective, high persistent unemployment rates, coupled with the need for fiscal adjustments, as well as limited scope for monetary policy actions, have contributed for the reduction of growth projections in advanced countries or even of their potential growth, indicating a wider and more volatile business cycle. In fact, the composite leading indicator released by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), for August, reinforced the signs of inflection in the main economies, with prospects of lower growth for this and the next semesters, and in some cases, of recession. Disaggregated indicators of the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) for September, related to activity in industry and in the services sector, are, in general, consistent with this scenario. There has also been reduction in growth projections for major emerging economies. Regarding monetary policy, mature economies have continued to adopt accommodative monetary stances, in specific cases, with new non-conventional initiatives in the field of monetary policy. Regarding inflation, the core measures have persisted at moderate levels in the G3 (US, Euro Area and Japan), with a marginal deterioration in the Euro Area and in the UK. In emerging economies, in general, the bias of monetary policy is expansionary. 
13. The price of Brent oil barrel has shown volatility, but remained above US$100. This price level is consistent with a framework of global demand moderation, coupled with high political instability in some producer countries and with lags in the process of resuming production. It bears highlighting that the geopolitical complexity that involves the oil sector tends to heighten the volatile behavior of prices, which is also a reflex of the low predictability of some global demand components and of the dependency of supply growth on long term risky investment projects. Regarding the other commodities, it is noteworthy the significant drop in the international prices of the ones related to agriculture and metals. The food price index, calculated by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), which considers 55 items, accumulated decrease of 5.5% since the peak in February 2011. In recent past, the high volatility observed in commodities prices was strongly impacted by the abundant global liquidity, in a context where financial markets adjust to new expectations of growth and to volatility in FX markets. 
14. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to the new set of available information. The scenario considered in the simulations was based on the following assumptions: 
a) the projected adjustments for gasoline prices accumulated in 2011 was increased to 6.7% up from 4.0% considered in the August Copom meeting, 
b) the adjustments for bottled gas prices accumulated in 2011 up to September was increased to 2.2%, compared to 0% considered in the August Copom meeting, 
c) the projected adjustment for fixed telephone and electricity accumulated in 2011 were kept unchanged at 0.9% and 4.1%, respectively, the same values considered in the August meeting, 
d) the projection for regulated prices inflation accumulated in 2011, based on individual items, according to the benchmark scenario, increased to 5.5%, up from 5.0% considered in the August meeting. This set of prices, according to data released by the IBGE, accounted for 28.94% of the total September IPCA, 
e) the projection for regulated prices inflation accumulated in 2012, according to the benchmark scenario, was increased to 4.5% up from 4.4% considered in the August meeting. Such projection is based on endogenous determination models for regulated prices, which compute, among other factors, seasonal components, foreign exchange rate changes, market prices inflation and the IGP (General Price Index) change, and 
f) the projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, based on the 360-day swap rates, on the benchmark scenario, estimates -55 bps and -28 bps spreads in the fourth quarters of 2011 and 2012, respectively. 
15. Regarding fiscal policy, projections assume the achievement of the public sector primary surplus target (R$127.9 billion), around 3.15% of GDP, without adjustments, in 2011. Moreover, a primary surplus of around 3.1% of GDP is considered for 2012 and 2013, without adjustments. 
16. The set of projections incorporated the estimated effects of the reserve requirements changes announced in December 2010. 
17. Since the last Copom meeting, the median of the expectations compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations and Special Studies Department (Gerin) for the 2011 IPCA was increased from 6.31% to 6.52%. For 2012, the median of inflation expectations were increased from 5.20% to 5.61%. Specifically for banks, asset managers and other institutions (real sector companies, brokers, consultancies and others), the medians for the 2011 IPCA changed from 6.30%, 6.32% and 6.30% to 6.51%, 6.54% and 6.50%, respectively. For 2012, the medians changed from 5.06%, 5.31% and 5.10% to 5.63%, 5.63% and 5.51%, in the same order. 
18. The benchmark scenario assumes the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$1.75/US$1.00 and the Selic rate at 12% p.a. during the forecast period. Under this scenario, the projection for the 2011 inflation increased relative to the figure considered at the August Copom meeting, and it stands above the 4.50% midpoint target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). According to the market scenario – which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin in the period immediately prior to the Copom meeting - IPCA inflation forecast for 2011 also increased and stands above the inflation midpoint target. For 2012, the projections increased in both the benchmark and the market scenarios, and stand above the midpoint of the target in both scenarios. For 2013Q3, projected inflation stands around the midpoint of the target in the benchmark scenario and above, in the market scenario. 
19. In the main scenario considered by the Copom, projected inflation stands around the midpoint of the target in 2012. 
20. This scenario was developed and analyzed from the perspective of models that broadly identify the transmission mechanisms of external developments to the Brazilian economy - among others, the channels of trade, the price of imports and the external volatility. As a working hypothesis, it considers that the current deterioration in the international scenario will have an impact on the Brazilian economy equivalent to one quarter of the impact observed during the 2008/2009 international crisis. Moreover, it assumes that the current deterioration of the international scenario is more persistent than the one verified in 2008/2009, but less acute, without observance of extreme events. According to this main scenario, domestic economic activity moderates and commodities prices in international markets and the exchange rate show some stability among other effects. Even with a moderate adjustment in the basic interest rate level, the inflation rate in the relevant horizon stands around the target in 2012, at a level below the one that would be observed if the above mentioned effect of the international crisis were not considered. 
21. The Copom evaluates that monetary policy should contribute to the consolidation of a favorable longer-term macroeconomic environment. In this respect, the Copom reassures that, under the inflation targeting regime, it guides its decisions according to BCB projected inflation and based on the analysis of alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine prices dynamics. The Committee also understands that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to reduce uncertainties regarding the future behavior of headline inflation, facilitate the assessment of scenarios by the monetary authority, as well as help the process of coordination of economic agents’ expectations, particularly price setters’. Additionally, it is noteworthy that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to intensify the effects of monetary policy actions, enabling them to affect in a more long-lasting manner the dynamics of headline inflation in the future. Although the Copom recognizes that other actions of macroeconomic policy may influence the price trajectory, it reaffirms its view that it is under the responsibility of the monetary policy to remain especially vigilant to guarantee that pressures detected in shorter horizons do not spread to longer horizons. 
22. International evidence, ratified by the Brazilian experience, indicates that high inflation rates lead to the increas in risk premium, both for private and public funding, and to the shortening of planning horizons, both for houseeholds and companies. Consequently, high inflation rates reduce investment and economic growth potential, in addition to presenting regressive effects on income distribution. Moreover, high inflation rates do not originate any lasting results for economic and employment growth, on the contrary, they create permanent damage to these variables in the medium and long terms. Therefore, the strategy adopted by the Copom aims to ensure the convergence of inflation towards the targets path, which requires that deviations from the target path be promptly corrected. Such strategy takes into account the time lags in the transmission mechanism and is the most adequate to deal with the uncertainty inherent to the process of monetary policy formulation and implementation. 
23. As a consequence of the stabilization and correction of unbalances, which determined important structural changes, the inflation targeting regime maturing process stands at an advanced stage, and it reflects favorably in the dynamics of neutral interest rate and in the power of monetary policy. Evidences under this respect can be observed, among other factors, through the accomplishment of inflation targets in the last seven years, at the same time that real interest rates have reduced. Progress in the financial markets structure, the reduction of both FX and inflationary risk premia, among other factors, seem to have determined significant reduction in the neutral rate. The generation of primary surpluses consistent with the maintenance of the decreasing trend for the public debt/GDP ratio also contributed for it. From another point-of-view, some of these developments, combined to others, such as the extension of contract tenures, also suggest that the power of monetary policy in Brazil has been increasing in the last years, despite the substantial uncertainty that surrounds the calculation of non-observable variables. The Committee also considers that there are evidences that the monetary policy traction increased in the recent past and, compared to what was observed some years ago, currently inflationary pressures are contained with more efficiency by monetary policy actions. 
24. The Copom considers that, since the last meeting, the risks to global financial stability have increased and thus contributed to the continuous process of deterioration of the international scenario which, already at that time, faced generalized and significant growth projections reductions for the main economic blocks. The Committee understands that the chances that the restrictions to which several mature economies are now exposed extend for a period longer than previously anticipated remain high. It also notes that, in these economies, there seems to be limited scope for using monetary policy, and a scenario of fiscal restraint also prevails. In addition, for the main emerging economies, despite the resilience of domestic demand, the pace of activity has moderated, in part, a consequence of policy actions and weakening external demand through the trade channel. Therefore, the Committee considers that the international scenario shows disinflationary bias for the relevant horizon. 
25. For the Copom, there has been accumulated evidence supporting the view that the transmission of external developments to the Brazilian economy can be realized through many channels, among others, the reduction of total trade flows, the moderation in investment inflows, tighter credit conditions and the worsening in consumer and business confidence. The Committee understands that the complexity surrounding the international environment will contribute to intensify and accelerate the ongoing moderation in domestic activity, which is already mirrored, for instance, in the retreat of growth projections for the Brazilian economy this year and in the upcoming year. In other words, the ongoing moderation process of the economy - a result of the policy actions implemented since the end of last year - tends to be boosted by the weakness of the global economy. 
26. The Copom evaluates that, although ongoing moderation of domestic demand growth is observed, prospects for economic activity are still favorable. This assessment is supported by signs that, despite showing some cooling, point to the fact that the expansion of credit supply tends to persist, both for individuals and corporate, and by the fact that consumers’ confidence stands at historically high levels, notwithstanding some accommodation at the margin. The Copom considers, additionally, that the domestic activity will continue to be benefited by the public transfers, as well as by the labor market vigor, mirrored in historically low unemployment rates and in wages growth, despite some accommodation at the margin. 
27. The Copom reaffirms its view that accumulated inflation in the twelve months peaked in the last quarter, and it begins to retreat in the current quarter, therefore, moving towards the target path. The Committee evaluates that, by itself, this reversion of trend will contribute to improve the expectations of economic agents about the dynamics of inflation in the upcoming quarters, especially those of the price setters. Additionally, the Committee believes that this improved perception will be boosted by the ongoing process of reassessment of the pace of both domestic and external economic activity, in this and in the upcoming semesters. 
28. The Copom reaffirms that the main inflation scenario considers the materialization of the assumed trajectories regarding fiscal variables. It bears highlighting that the generation of primary surpluses in line with the hypotheses considered for inflation projections, in addition to contributing to reduce the mismatches between supply and demand growth rates, will strengthen the trend in the reduction of the public debt-to-GDP ratio. It bears highlighting that, since the beginning of this year, important decisions have been taken and implemented, which reinforce the view that a fiscal consolidation process is underway. 
29. The Copom highlights that its main scenario for inflation also considers moderation in credit market expansion, for which macroprudential and conventional monetary policy actions recently adopted contribute. Still about the credit market, the Committee considers opportune the introduction of initiatives with the aim of moderating the concession of subsidies through credit operations. 
30. The Copom evaluates that, at the start of the year, inflation was strongly and negatively impacted by domestic and external supply shocks, as well as by the atypical concentration of regulated prices adjustments. Although in decreasing intensity, these developments should also indirectly impact the dynamics of consumer prices, through inertia, among other mechanisms. At the same time, it evaluates, as relevant, despite decreasing, the risks stemming from the persistence of the mismatch between supply and demand growth rates. Moreover, it highlights the narrow idleness margin in the labor market. Despite signs of moderation in this market, considers that in such circumstances, a very important risk stems from the possibility of concession of nominal wages increases incompatible with productivity growth and from its negative impacts over inflation dynamics. On the other hand, the Copom notes that the level of installed capacity utilization has retreated and is below the long-term trend, or is contributing to the opening of the output gap and to contain price pressures. The Committee also observes that, at the end of last year and at the start of this year, the risks associated to commodities prices trajectory were key to the prospective scenario. However, since April these prices have retreated in international markets. 
31. In short, the Copom recognizes an economic environment in which a much above-than-usual uncertainty level prevails, and evaluates that since the last meeting, the inflation prospective scenario has shown favorable signs. The Copom notes that, according to the main scenario, the inflation rate stands around the target in 2012 and identifies decreasing risks to the confirmation of a scenario in which inflation timely converges to the midpoint target. 
32. In this context, continuing the process of monetary conditions adjustment, the Copom unanimously decided to decrease the Selic target to 11.50%, without bias. 
33. Domestic demand is still robust, especially household consumption, largely due to the effects of stimulus factors, such as income growth and credit expansion. However, recent initiatives reinforce a scenario for restrained public sector expenditures. Other important factors to curb domestic demand are the substantial deterioration of the international scenario and the macroprudential actions implemented. These elements and the quasi fiscal developments are an important part of the context in which future monetary policy decisions will be taken, aiming to ensure the timely convergence of inflation to the targets path.  