1. After recording 0.53% in September, monthly inflation measured by the IPCA reached 0.43% in October. As a consequence, twelve-month inflation through October 2011 reduced to 6.97%, down from 7.31% in September, 1.77 p.p. above inflation registered in the same period of 2010. Market prices twelve-month inflation through October 2011 retreated to 7.24%, down from 7.79% in September, and regulated prices reached 6.34%, up from 6.17%, according to the same comparison basis. Regarding market prices, it bears highlighting that tradable goods inflation reached 5.87%, while inflation related to non-tradable goods increased 8.41%. Services price monthly inflation decreased to 0.41% in October, after growing by 0.50% in August and 0.51% in September, decreasing, therefore, the twelve-month accumulated inflation to 8.94%, down from 9.03% in September. In short, the set of available information suggests a declining trend of inflation on a twelve-month accumulated basis. 
2. The underlying inflation measures calculated by the BCB, in general, showed trend similar to the observed in headline inflation, with slight decrease in the average of monthly changes and in the average of twelve-month inflation through October 2011. The smoothed trimmed means core inflation increased from 0.55% in August to 0.58% in September and 0.59% in October, while the non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation increased from 0.33% in August to 0.55% in September and decreased to 0.44% in October. Similarly, the double weight core inflation, after registering 0.39% in August, increased to 0.51% in September and decreased to 0.50% in October. At the same time, core inflation by exclusion, which excludes ten items of food at home and fuel, totaled 0.47% in October, up from 0.45% in September and 0.32% in August, while core inflation by exclusion of regulated prices and of household food changed to 0.43% in October, from 0.44% in September and 0.45% in August. Therefore, the average change of these five core measures changed from 0.41% in August to 0.51% in September and 0.49% in October. In the twelve months through October, the average change of the five core measures registered 6.82%, compared to 6.87% in September and to 6.73% in August. 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) inflation registered 0.40% in October, down from 0.75% in September. In the twelve months through October, the change reached 6.78%, 2.33 p.p. below the registered in October 2010. Under this criterion, the index has been slowing down since December 2010, when it recorded 11.30%. Inflation measured by its main component, the Wholesale Price Index (IPA), reached 6.63% in twelve months through October, reflecting an increase of 5.79% in the industrial IPA and of 9.00% in the agricultural IPA. The breakdown according to the production phase shows that raw material prices accumulated 12.71% change, while the prices of intermediate goods and final goods increased 5.16% and 3.23%, respectively, according to the same comparison basis. Inflation measured by the Consumer Price Index (IPC), another component of the IGP-DI, recorded 6.78% in the twelve months through October 2011, above the 4.96% recorded in 2010. According to the same comparison basis, the Civil Construction National Index (INCC), component with the lowest weight in the IGP-DI, increased 7.72%. On its turn, the Producer/ Manufacturing Industry Price Index (IPP/IT), calculated by the IBGE, which measures the industry price level excluding freights and taxes, registered 1.23% in September, up from 0.16% in August. In twelve months, the index inflation increased to 4.90% in September, up from 4.24% in August. 
4. The Economic Activity Index of the BCB (IBC-Br) incorporates estimates for the monthly production of the three sectors of the economy, as well as for taxes on products, and constitutes, therefore, an important coincident indicator of economic activity. Considering seasonally adjusted data, the IBC-Br remained unchanged in September, after decreasing 0.6% in August and increasing 0.3% in July. Thus, the quarterly growth rate between July and September stood at -0.3%. Compared to the third quarter of 2010, the indicator grew 1.9%. The growth rate accumulated in twelve months, which has been slowing down since December 2010, decreased from 4.0% in August to 3.6% in September. The Services Confidence Index (ICS), from FGV, repeated, in October, the September decline rate (0.4%), signaling deceleration in the sector. Thus, the level of the indicator was 1.9% below the October 2010 level, and 2.1% below the average level of 2010. 
5. Indicators of Credit Conditions, built based on consultation carried out quarterly by the BCB with financial institutions representing every segment of the credit market, suggest mixed prospects. For large companies, combined analysis of the indicators of supply, demand and approval scenario suggests more restrictive scenario. In relation to credit for micro, small and medium enterprises, the indicators reveal a scenario moderately more restrictive in terms of supply, and moderately stronger in terms of demand. Regarding credit to consumption, in contrast to that observed in the quarter that began in July, participants expect the percentage of approval of new lines for the fourth quarter to be moderately higher than in the previous quarter, consistent with the seasonal pattern.
6. Industrial activity fell 2.0% in September, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, after a decline of 0.1% in August and an increase of 0.3% in July. The fall in production in September was driven by the decrease of 11.0% in the production of automotive vehicles. According to the quarterly moving average, there was a decline of 0.6% between July and September, after falling 0.3% between June and August. Year-over-year, production decreased 1.6% in September, while in the last twelve months, it expanded by 1.6%, compared to 2.3% registered in August, continuing the process of moderation in the growth pace. Overall, 53% of products surveyed decreased in production in September, year-over-year. Compared to December 2008, month with the lowest output level during the 2008/09 crisis, the accumulated growth until September 2011 reached 22.3%. According to data from the National Industry Confederation (CNI), earnings in the manufacturing industry recorded 4.1% real growth in September year-over-year, while the number of worked hours worked decreased 0.4%. 
7. Among the industry use categories, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, in September there were declines of 5.5% in the production of capital goods, 9.0% in the production of durable consumer goods and 1.3% in the production of non-durable and semi-durable consumer goods, while the production of intermediate goods remained at the same level as the previous month. In the twelve months through September, intermediate goods output increased 1.4%, durable consumer goods output grew 0.8% and non-durable and semi-durable consumer goods output increased 0.6%. According to the same comparison basis, capital goods industry recorded the highest growth activity level among use categories, expanding by 5.5%. 
8. The unemployment rate in the six metropolitan regions covered by the IBGE Monthly Labor Survey (PME), according to observed data, reached 5.8% in October, compared to the 6.1% level registered in October 2010, after reaching 6.0% in September. After recording 9.0% in March 2009, the observed data reduced significantly and reached a record low for October, since the start of the series in March 2002. The unemployment rate seasonally adjusted by the BCB remained virtually unchanged at 6.0% in October (6.1% in September). Employment, measured by the number of employed workers in the six main metropolitan regions, year-over-year, increased 1.5% in October, year-over-year, after expanding by 1.7% in September. Data from the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) indicate that in October 126.1 thousand jobs were created (204.8 thousand in October 2010), with expansion of formal jobs in seven out of the eight sectors of economic activity. Services and trade were the sectors that mostly contributed for the formal employment increase in the month. According to PME, real average earnings remained stable in October month-on-month, and accumulated -0.3% growth in twelve months. As a consequence, real payroll, considering real average earnings in the six metropolitan regions, expanded 0.9% in October, year-over-year. In short, evidences indicate that although the labor market remains robust, there are signs of moderation at the margin. 
9. According to the retail monthly survey (PMC) from IBGE, expanded retail sales increased 4.8% in September, year-over-year, after recording 5.4% growth in August and 7.2% in July, according to the same comparison basis. According to the seasonally adjusted series, expanded retail sales increased by 0.9% in September, month-on-month, after decreases of 1.7% in August and 0.1% in July. The twelve-month accumulated growth rate reached 9.6% in September, down from 9.7% in August and 10.5% in July. According to this comparison basis, all ten sectors surveyed showed expansion in the volume of sales, with highlights for furniture and appliances (17.9%), equipment and supplies for office, computer and communication (16.6%), vehicles, motorcycles, parts and pieces (12.9%) and construction inputs (11.1%). In the coming months, the retail trajectory will continue to be positively influenced by governmental transfers, by the growth pace of real payroll, by the consumer confidence level and by moderate credit expansion. 
10. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry, calculated by the FGV, without seasonal adjustment, registered 84.5% in November, down from 84.7% in October. Thus, capacity utilization stood 1.6 p.p. and 1.7 p.p. lower than the levels observed in November and October 2010, respectively. According to the seasonally adjusted monthly series calculated by the FGV, the Nuci decreased from 83.5% in October to 83.3% in November, the lowest level since November 2009. Capacity utilization is higher in the sectors of construction inputs (90.5%) and intermediate goods (85.4%). In the sector of capital goods, the Nuci stood at 83.3%, while in the sector of consumer goods it stood at 82.7%. According to the Confederation of National Industry (CNI) data, seasonally adjusted by the BCB, the Nuci decreased from 82.2% in August to 81.7% in September. The rates of capacity utilization have been retreating, reflecting, in part, the reduction in the pace of production growth and the maturity of investments. In fact, the absorption of capital goods grew 8.1% in the last twelve months through September (11.4% until August), while the production of construction inputs increased 4.5% (4.9 % until August). 
11. The trade balance surplus in the last twelve months increased from US$ 30.5 billion in September to US$ 31.0 billion in October. This result stemmed from US$250.7 billion in exports and US$219.7 billion in imports, equivalent to 31.7% and 26.9% changes, respectively, in the last twelve months through October. The current account deficit accumulated in twelve months decreased from US$48.0 billion in September to US$ 47.3 billion in October, equivalent to 2.0% of GDP. On its turn, foreign direct investment reached US$75.1 billion in the twelve months through October, equivalent to 3.17% of GDP, exceeding largely the needs for external funding. 
12. Global economy faces a period of uncertainty above the usual, with deterioration in activity prospects. Risks to global financial stability are high, among other factors, due to the exposure of international banks to sovereign debts of countries with fiscal imbalances, especially in the Euro Zone. It should be noted that the levels of risk aversion remain high - for example, those measured by credit default swaps (CDS) of banks in the Euro Zone - are higher than those observed during the 2008/2009 crisis. From another perspective, high persistent unemployment rates, coupled with the need for fiscal adjustments, as well as limited scope for monetary policy actions and political uncertainty, have contributed for the reduction of growth projections in advanced countries or even of their potential growth, indicating wider and more volatile economic cycle. In fact, the composite leading indicator released by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), for September, reinforced the signs of inflection in all main economies, with less favorable prospects for this and the upcoming semesters. In specific cases, the probability of recession increased. Disaggregated indicators of the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) for October, related to activity in industry and in the services sector, are, in general, consistent with this scenario. There has also been continued reduction in growth projections for important emerging economies. Regarding monetary policy, mature economies have continued to adopt accommodative monetary stances and, in specific cases, with new non-conventional initiatives in the field of monetary policy. Regarding inflation, the core measures have persisted at moderate levels in the G3 (US, Euro Zone and Japan), with some marginal deterioration. In emerging economies, in general, the bias of monetary policy is expansionary. 
13. The price of Brent oil barrel has shown volatility, but remained above US$100. This price level is consistent with a framework of global demand moderation, coupled with high political instability in some producer countries and with lags in the process of production resumption. It bears highlighting that the geopolitical complexity that involves the oil sector tends to heighten the volatile behavior of prices, which is also a reflex of the low predictability of some global demand components and of the dependency of supply growth on long term risky investment projects. Regarding the other commodities, it is noteworthy the continuity of the decline in the international prices of the ones related to agriculture and metals. The food price index, calculated by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), which considers 55 items, accumulates a decrease of 9.1% since the peak observed in February 2011. In the recent past, the high volatility observed in commodities prices was strongly impacted by the abundant global liquidity, in a context where financial markets adjust to new expectations of growth and to volatility in FX markets. 
14. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to the new set of available information. The scenario considered in the simulations was based on the following assumptions: 
a) the projected adjustment for gasoline price remained at 6.7%, the same value considered in the October meeting. For 2012, the projected adjustment in the gasoline price is null, 
b) the projected adjustment for bottled gas price remained at 2.2%, the same value considered in the October meeting. For 2012, the projected adjustment in the price of bottled gas is null, 
c) the projected adjustments for fixed telephone and electricity accumulated in 2011 were changed to 0.0% and 4.5% respectively, from 0.9% and 4.1% considered in the October meeting. For 2012, the projected adjustments in the prices of fixed telephone and electricity are 1.5% and 2.3% respectively, 
d) the projection for regulated prices inflation accumulated in 2011, based on individual items, according to the benchmark scenario, increased to 6.1%, up from 5.5% considered in the October meeting. For 2012, the projected adjustments changed to 4.0%, down from 4.5% considered in the October meeting. This set of prices, according to data released by the IBGE, accounted for 28.96% of the total October IPCA, 
e) the projection for regulated prices inflation accumulated in 2013, according to the benchmark scenario, is 4.5%. Such projection is based on endogenous determination models for regulated prices, which compute, among other factors, seasonal components, foreign exchange rate changes, market prices inflation and the IGP (General Price Index) change, and 
f) the projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, based on the 360-day swap rates, on the benchmark scenario, estimates -85 bps and -17 bps spreads in the fourth quarters of 2011 and 2012, respectively. The spread for the third quarter of 2013 is 54 bps. 
15. Regarding fiscal policy, projections assume the achievement of the public sector primary surplus target (R$127.9 billion), around 3.15% of GDP, without adjustments, in 2011. Moreover, a primary surplus of around 3.10% of GDP is considered for 2012 and 2013, without adjustments. 
16. The set of projections incorporated the estimated effects of the reserve requirements changes announced in December 2010. 
17. The set of projections incorporated the estimated effects of the change in the IPCA weighting structure, which will take place in January 2012. 
18. Since the last Copom meeting, the median of the expectations compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations and Special Studies Department (Gerin) for the 2011 IPCA decreased from 6.52% to 6.49%. For 2012, the median of inflation expectations decreased from 5.61% to 5.56%. Specifically for banks, asset managers and other institutions (real sector companies, brokers, consultancies and others), the medians of expectations for the 2011 IPCA changed from 6.51%, 6.54% and 6.50% to 6.50%, 6.51% and 6.48%, respectively. For 2012, the medians changed from 5.63%, 5.63% and 5.51% to 5.58%, 5.57% and 5.53%, in the same order. 
19. The benchmark scenario assumes the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$1.85/US$1.00 and the Selic rate at 11.50% p.a. during the forecast period. Under this scenario, the projection for the 2011 inflation increased relative to the figure considered at the October Copom meeting, and it stands above the 4.50% midpoint target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). According to the market scenario, which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin in the period immediately prior to the Copom meeting, IPCA inflation forecast for 2011 also increased and stands above the inflation midpoint target. For 2012, the inflation projections decreased in both the benchmark and the market scenarios, and stand around the midpoint of the target in both scenarios. For 2013 Q3, projected inflation also decreased and stands around the midpoint of the target in the benchmark scenario and above, in the market scenario. 
20. In the main scenario considered by the Copom, projected inflation stands around the midpoint of the target in 2012. 
21. This scenario was developed and analyzed from the perspective of models that identify in a broader manner the transmission mechanisms of external developments to the Brazilian economy – among others, the trade, imports prices and the external volatility channels. As a working hypothesis, it considers that the current deterioration in the international scenario will have an impact on the Brazilian economy equivalent to one fourth of the impact observed during the 2008/2009 international crisis. Moreover, it assumes that the current deterioration of the international scenario is more persistent than the one verified in 2008/2009, but less acute, without observance of extreme events. According to this mains scenario, domestic economic activity moderates and commodities prices in international markets and the exchange rate show some stability, among other effects. Even with a moderate adjustment in the basic interest rate level, the inflation rate in the relevant horizon stands around the target in 2012, at a level below the one that would be observed if the above mentioned effect of the international crisis were not considered. 
22. The Copom evaluates that monetary policy should contribute to the consolidation of a favorable longer-term macroeconomic environment. In this respect, the Copom reassures that, under the inflation targeting regime, it guides its decisions according to BCB projected inflation and based on the analysis of alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine prices dynamics. The Committee also understands that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to reduce uncertainties regarding the future behavior of headline inflation, facilitate the assessment of scenarios by the monetary authority, as well as help the process of coordination of economic agents’ expectations, particularly price setters’. Additionally, it is noteworthy that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to intensify the effects of monetary policy actions, enabling them to affect in a more long-lasting manner the dynamics of headline inflation in the future. Although the Copom recognizes that other actions of macroeconomic policy may influence the price trajectory, it reaffirms its view that it is under the responsibility of the monetary policy to remain especially vigilant to guarantee that pressures detected in shorter horizons do not spread to longer horizons. 
23. International evidence, ratified by the Brazilian experience, indicates that high inflation rates lead to the increase in risk premium, both for private and public funding, and to the shortening of planning horizons, both for households and companies. Consequently, high inflation rates reduce investment and economic growth potential, in addition to presenting regressive effects on income distribution. Moreover, high inflation rates do not originate any lasting results for economic and employment growth, on the contrary, they create permanent damage to these variables in the medium and long terms. Therefore, the strategy adopted by the Copom aims to ensure the convergence of inflation towards the targets path, which requires that deviations from the target path be promptly corrected. Such strategy takes into account the time lags in the transmission mechanism and is the most adequate to deal with the uncertainty inherent to the process of monetary policy formulation and implementation. 
24. As a consequence of the stabilization and correction of unbalances, which determined important structural changes, the inflation targeting regime maturing process stands at an advanced stage, and it reflects favorably in the dynamics of neutral interest rate and in the power of monetary policy. Evidences under this respect can be observed, among other factors, through the accomplishment of inflation targets in the last seven years, at the same time that real interest rates have reduced. Progress in the financial markets structure, the reduction of both FX and inflationary risk premia, among other factors, seem to have determined significant reduction in the neutral rate. The generation of primary surpluses consistent with the maintenance of the decreasing trend for the public debt/GDP ratio also contributed for it. From another point-of-view, some of these developments, combined to others, such as the extension of contract tenures, also suggest that the power of monetary policy in Brazil has been increasing in the last years, despite the substantial uncertainty that surrounds the calculation of non-observable variables. The Committee also considers that there are evidences that the monetary policy traction increased in the recent past and, compared to what was observed some years ago, inflationary pressures are currently contained with more efficiency by monetary policy actions. 
25. The Copom considers that, since the last meeting, the risks to global financial stability have increased and thus contributed to the continuous process of deterioration of the international scenario which, already at that time, faced generalized and significant growth projections reductions for the main economic blocks. The Committee understands that the chances that the restrictions to which several mature economies are now exposed extend for a period longer than previously anticipated remain high. It also notes that, in these economies, there seems to be limited scope for using monetary policy, and a scenario of fiscal restraint also prevails. In addition, for the main emerging economies, despite the resilience of domestic demand, the pace of activity has moderated, in part, a consequence of policy actions and the weakening of external demand, through the trade channel. Therefore, the Committee considers that the international scenario shows disinflationary bias for the relevant horizon. 
26. For the Copom, there are cumulative evidences supporting the view that the transmission of external developments to the Brazilian economy can be materialized through many channels, among others, the reduction of total trade flows, the moderation in investment inflows, tighter credit conditions and the worsening in consumer and businessmen confidence. The Committee understands that the effects of the complexity surrounding the international environment add up to the those stemming from the moderation of domestic activity observed this semester, which is already mirrored, for instance, in the retreat of growth projections for the Brazilian economy this year and in the upcoming year. In other words, the ongoing moderation process of the economy - a result of the policy actions implemented since the end of last year - tends to be boosted by the weakness of the global economy. 
27. The Copom evaluates that, although ongoing moderation of domestic demand growth is observed, prospects for economic activity are still favorable. This assessment is supported by signs that, despite showing some cooling, point to the fact that the expansion of credit supply tends to persist, both for individuals and corporate, and by the fact that consumers’ confidence, notwithstanding the accommodation at the margin, stands at historically high levels. The Copom considers, additionally, that the domestic activity will continue to be benefited by the public transfers, as well as by the labor market vigor, mirrored in historically low unemployment rates and in wages growth, despite some accommodation at the margin. 
28. The Copom reaffirms its view that inflation accumulated in twelve months peaked in the last quarter, and it begins to retreat in the current quarter, therefore, moving towards the targets path. The Committee evaluates that, by itself, this reversion of trend will contribute to improve the expectations of economic agents, especially those of the price setters, about the dynamics of inflation in the upcoming quarters. Additionally, the Committee believes that this improved perception will be boosted by the ongoing process of reassessment of the economic activity pace, both domestic and external, in this and in the upcoming semesters. 
29. The Copom notes that the main inflation scenario considers the materialization of the assumed trajectories regarding fiscal variables. It bears highlighting that the generation of primary surpluses in line with the hypotheses considered for inflation projections, in addition to contributing to reduce the mismatches between supply and demand growth rates, will strengthen the trend of the public debt-to-GDP ratio reduction. It bears highlighting that, since the beginning of this year, important decisions have been taken and implemented, which reinforce the view that a fiscal consolidation process is underway. 
30. The Copom highlights that its main scenario also considers moderation in credit market expansion. Still about the credit market, the Committee considers opportune the adoption of initiatives with the aim of moderating the concession of subsidies through credit operations. 
31. The Copom evaluates that, at the start of the year, inflation was strongly and negatively impacted by domestic and external supply shocks, as well as by the atypical concentration of regulated prices adjustments. In decreasing intensity, these developments should also indirectly impact the dynamics of consumer prices, through inertia, among other mechanisms. The Copom evaluates as relevant, despite decreasing, the risks stemming from the persistence of the mismatch between supply and demand growth rates. Moreover, it highlights the narrow idleness margin in the labor market. Despite signs of moderation in this market, it considers that, under such circumstances, an important risk stems from the possibility of concession of wages increases incompatible with productivity growth and from its negative impacts over inflation dynamics. On the other hand, the Copom notes that the level of installed capacity utilization has retreated and is below the long-term trend, that is, it is contributing to the opening of the output gap and to contain price pressures. The Committee also observes that, at the end of last year and at the start of this year, the risks associated to commodities prices trajectory were key to the prospective scenario. However, since April these prices have retreated in international markets.
32. In short, the Copom recognizes an economic environment in which a much above-than-usual uncertainty level prevails, and evaluates that since the last meeting, the inflation prospective scenario has shown favorable signs. The Copom notes that, according to the main scenario, the inflation rate stands around the target in 2012 and identifies decreasing risks to the confirmation of a scenario in which inflation timely converges to the midpoint target. 
33. In this context, continuing the process of monetary conditions adjustment, the Copom unanimously decided to decrease the Selic target to 11.00%, without bias. 
34. Domestic demand is still robust, especially household consumption, largely due to the effects of stimulus factors, such as income growth and credit expansion. This scenario tends to prevail in the upcoming quarters, when the domestic demand will be impacted by the effects of the monetary policy actions recently implemented which, in short, are lagged and cumulative. On the other hand, recent initiatives reinforce a scenario for restrained public sector expenditures. Another important factor to curb aggregate demand is the substantial deterioration in the international scenario. These elements and the quasi fiscal developments are an important part of the context in which future monetary policy decisions will be taken, aiming to ensure the timely convergence of inflation to the targets path. 