1. Monthly inflation measured by the Extended Consumer Price Index (IPCA) retreated to 0.08% in June (0.36% in May), resulting in the ninth consecutive retreat of twelve-month trailing inflation, which moved to 4.92% in June (6.71% in June 2011). Market prices inflation increased 5.34% in the twelve months through June (7.14% in June 2011), while regulated prices inflation reached 3.77% (5.70% in June 2011). Regarding market prices, it bears highlighting that tradable goods inflation increased 2.97% in the twelve months through June (6.26% in June 2011), while inflation related to non-tradable goods increased 7.52% (7.89% in June 2011). The prices of services increased 0.52% in June (0.21% in May), totaling 7.50% in the twelve months through June (8.75% in June 2011). In short, despite the fact that services inflation still remains at high levels, the set of available information suggests a declining trend of inflation on a twelve-month accumulated basis towards the inflation target. 
2. Underlying inflation measures calculated by the BCB have performed similarly to headline inflation. The average of monthly changes moved from 0.34% in May to 0.14% in June. On its turn, on a twelve-month trailing basis, the average change of the five core inflation measures moved from 5.52% in May to 5.16% in June. The smoothed trimmed means IPCA core inflation moved from 0.45% in May to 0.39% in June, and the non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation changed from 0.31% to 0.30% in the same period. Similarly, the double weight core inflation, after registering 0.34% in May, retreated to 0.07% in June. At the same time, core inflation by exclusion, which excludes ten household food and fuels items, decreased from 0.36% in May to 0.05% in June, and the core inflation by exclusion of regulated prices and household food changed from 0.26% in May to -0.09% in June. 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) retreated from 0.91% in May to 0.69% in June, resulting, on a twelve-month trailing basis, in 5.66% (8.63% in June 2011). The main component of this indicator, the Wholesale Price Index (IPA), changed 5.54% in the twelve months through June, reflecting an increase of 4.72% in the industrial IPA and 7.86% in the agricultural IPA. According to the breakdown by stage of production, there were increases in the prices of raw materials (5.41%), intermediate goods (6.29%) and final goods (4.79%), according to the same comparison basis. Inflation measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPI), the second most important component of the IGP-DI, stood at 5.37% in the twelve months through June (6.40% in June 2011). The Civil Construction National Index (INCC), component with the lowest weight in the IGP-DI, changed 7.04%, driven by the increase in labor cost. On its turn, the Producer/Manufacturing Industry Price Index (IPP/IT), calculated by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), increased 1.65% in May (1.46% in April), increasing 4.73% in twelve months. The Copom considers that the effects of the behavior of wholesale prices on consumer inflation will depend on the current and prospective conditions of the demand and on the price setters' expectations regarding the future inflation path. 
4. The IBGE released information regarding GDP in the first quarter of 2012. Activity expanded by 0.8% in the first quarter, year-over-year, and 0.2% quarter-over-quarter, according to seasonally adjusted data. Therefore, growth accumulated in four quarters retreated to 1.9%, ratifying the view that economy has grown below its potential. On the aggregate supply side, the services sector and industry grew 1.6% and 0.1%, respectively, year-over-year. The agricultural production retreated by 8.5% according to the same comparison basis, largely due to adverse weather conditions. On the aggregate demand side, household consumption grew by 2.5%, government consumption increased by 3.4%, and Fixed Capital Gross Formation (FCGF) contracted by 2.1%, year-over-year. On its turn, the contribution of the external sector was null, after nine consecutive quarters of negative figures, with expansion of 6.6% in exports and 6.3% in imports. In short, domestic demand, boosted by moderate expansion of credit, as well as by employment and income growth, has been the main factor sustaining activity. 
5. The Economic Activity Index of the BCB (IBC-Br) incorporates estimates for the monthly production of the three sectors of the economy, as well as for taxes on products, and constitutes important coincident indicator of economic activity. Considering seasonally adjusted data, the IBC-Br increased by 0.2% in April, after a fall of 0.6% in March. Thus, the indicator increased 0.2% from February to April, quarter-over-quarter, and increased 0.6% year-over-year. The twelve-month accumulated growth rate reached 1.7% in April. On its turn, the Consumer Confidence Index (ICC), from Getúlio Vargas Foundation (FGV), retreated for the second consecutive month in June, after reaching, in April, the highest level of the series started in September 2005. On its turn, the Services Sector Confidence Index (ICS) presented the third consecutive decline in June and points to moderation of the activity in the sector. 
6. Industrial activity retreated by 0.9% in May, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, after retreating by 0.4% in April. The production of fourteen of the 27 branches of activity decreased in May. On a quarterly moving average basis, industrial production decreased 0.7% from March to May. Year-over-year, production retreated 4.3% in May, while on a twelve-month accumulated basis, it decreased by 1.8%. According to seasonally adjusted data from the National Industry Confederation (CNI), revenues in the manufacturing industry recorded 5.9% real growth in May, year-over-year, while the number of hours worked decreased by 1.5%. 
7. Among the industry use categories, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, capital goods production fell by 1.8% in May and the production of durable consumer goods decreased by 2.2%. The production of intermediate goods grew 0.2%, and the production of semi-durable and nondurable consumer goods fell by 2.1%. In the twelve months through May, there were decreases in the production of capital goods (-3.8%), durable consumer goods (-7.1%), intermediate goods (-1.1%), and semi-durable and non-durable consumer goods (-0.3%). 
8. The unemployment rate in the six metropolitan regions covered by the IBGE Monthly Employment Survey (PME), according to observed data, reached 5.8% in May (6.0% in April), 0.6 p.p. below the rate recorded in May 2011. According to data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, the unemployment rate reduced from 5.6% in April to 5.4% in May, the lowest level of the series started in March 2002. Year-over-year, there were increases of 2.5% in the occupation level and 1.9% in the economically active population. Regarding occupied population, the share of formal employees in the private sector reached 48.9% in May. In this sense, in May, 139.7 thousand formal jobs were created (compared to 252.1 thousand jobs created in May 2011). The slower growth of the economically active population in the recent period, compared to the occupied population, has contributed to the maintenance of low unemployment rates, despite the moderation in the pace of job creation. According to PME, real average earnings increased 4.9% in May, compared to the same month of last year. As a consequence, real payroll, considering the average earnings of occupied population in the six metropolitan regions, expanded 7.5% year-over-year. In short, the set of available data indicates that, although the labor market remains robust, there are signs of moderation at the margin. 
9. According to the retail monthly survey (PMC) from IBGE, expanded retail sales increased 4.2% in May, year-over-year. According to the seasonally adjusted series, expanded retail sales decreased by 0.7% in May, month-on-month, after increasing by 0.5% in April. The accumulated growth rate in twelve months stood at 5.3% in May, with expansion in all ten sectors surveyed, with highlights for office, computing and communication equipment and material (26.4%) and furniture and appliances (14.9%). According to data released by the Automotive Vehicles Distribution National Federation (Fenabrave), the number of licensing of automobiles and light commercial vehicles strongly expanded in June, partially due to fiscal stimuli granted to this sector. Since October 2011, the FGV, in partnership with the BCB, has been releasing the Trade Confidence Index (ICOM). This indicator provides important additional information, as it portrays the current outlook and signals the evolution of commercial activity in a more timely manner. In June, the index evolved negatively, after recording consecutive improvements in the months of March, April and May. For the upcoming months, the retail sales trajectory will continue to be influenced by governmental transfers, by the pace of real payroll growth, by the high level of consumer confidence and by moderate credit expansion. 
10. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry, calculated by the FGV, without seasonal adjustment, showed stability in June (83.6%), standing 0.5 p.p. below the level observed in June 2011. According to the seasonally adjusted series calculated by the FGV, the Nuci stood at 83.8% in June, also 0.5 p.p. below the level recorded in June 2011. Capacity utilization is more significant in the sector of construction inputs (85.7%), but has presented a retreat trend since December 2011. In the sectors of intermediate goods, capital goods and consumer goods, the levels stood at 85.5%, 83.4% and 83.2%, respectively. According to the Confederation of National Industry (CNI) data, seasonally adjusted by the BCB, the Nuci stood at 80.7% in May, 1.8 p.p. below the level registered in May 2011. Still according to the FGV, the difference between the share of companies that reported excess inventories and those which reported insufficient inventories resumed the downward trend in June, according to the seasonally adjusted series. 
11. The trade balance surplus on a twelve-month accumulated basis decreased from US$27.5 billion in May to US$23.9 billion in June. This result stemmed from US$255.0 billion in exports and US$231.0 billion in imports, equivalent to 10.4% and 12.3% changes, respectively, relative to the previous twelve months. The current account deficit accumulated in twelve months changed from US$51.6 billion in April to US$50.9 billion in May, equivalent to 2.11% of GDP. On its turn, foreign direct investment reached US$63.0 billion in the twelve months through May, equivalent to 2.61% of GDP. 
12. Global economy faces a period of above-than-usual uncertainty, with high risk aversion, and prospects of low growth, which have intensified since the last Copom meeting. In this sense, data suggest some cooling of the activity in the United States (US), in a scenario of risks associated to the fiscal outlook and to the deepening of the European crisis. Heightened risks to global financial stability remain due to the still high level of political uncertainty and to the difficulties of implementing the recently announced measures. High rates of unemployment for a long period, coupled with the need for fiscal adjustments, the limited scope for countercyclical policy actions and the political uncertainty are translated into projections of low growth for mature economies. The composite leading indicator released by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), referring to June, indicates activity below trend in the Euro Area and in the main emerging economies, besides moderation of activity in Japan and in the US. In the same sense, the disaggregated indicators of the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) for June suggest moderation in global activity, mainly in manufacturing activity. Regarding monetary policy, advanced economies persist with strongly accommodative stances - the European Central Bank (ECB) reduced the interest rate to the lowest historical level, and the Bank of England resumed measures of quantitative easing. Core inflation measures have remained at moderate levels in the US, in the Euro Area and in Japan. In emerging economies, in general, the monetary policy bias is expansionist, which combines, in some cases, with additional countercyclical policies. In particular, China promoted, in June and July, two consecutive cuts in the reference interest rates for deposits and loans. 
13. The price of Brent oil barrel has oscillated around US$100 since the last Copom meeting. It bears highlighting that the geopolitical complexity that involves the oil sector tends to heighten the volatile behavior of prices, which is also a reflex of the low predictability of some global demand components and of the dependency of supply growth on long term risky investment projects. As measured by the Commodity Research Bureau (CRB), since the last Copom meeting, international prices of metallic commodities fell 6.9%, while those related to agricultural commodities increased 7.9%. Therefore, relative to the record highs observed in April 2011, the changes reach -28.5% and -12.3%, respectively. On its turn, the Food Price Index, calculated by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), accumulated a fall of 15.4% until June, compared to the peak recorded in February 2011. In the recent past, the high volatility observed for the commodities prices was influenced by the abundant global liquidity, in a context where financial markets adjust to new expectations for growth and volatility in FX markets. Prospectively, it is plausible to affirm that the reduction of growth targets in China, coupled with the fragility of the global economy, tends to generate downward pressures over commodities prices. 
14. The identified shocks, and their impacts, were reassessed according to the new set of available information. The scenario considered in the simulations was based on the following assumptions: 
a) the projected adjustment for gasoline and bottled gas prices, for 2012, were maintained at 0%, the same value considered at the May Copom meeting, 
b) the projected adjustment for 2012 for fixed telephone was reduced to -1.0%, compared to 1.5% considered at the May Copom meeting, and for electricity, was increased to 1.4%, up from 1.3% considered at the May meeting, 
c) the projected adjustment, based on individual items, for the set of regulated prices inflation accumulated in 2012, was reduced to 3.6%, down from 4.0% considered at the May Copom meeting, 
d) the projected adjustment for the set of regulated prices inflation accumulated in 2013 was maintained at 4.5%, the same value considered at the May Copom meeting. Such projection is based on endogenous determination models for regulated prices, which compute, among other factors, seasonal components, market prices inflation, and the IGP (General Price Index) change, and 
e) the projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, based on the 360-day swap rates, on the benchmark scenario, estimates 33 bps and 24 bps spreads in the fourth quarter of 2012 and 2013, respectively. 
15. Regarding fiscal policy, projections assume the achievement in 2012 of the public sector primary surplus around 3.10% of GDP, without adjustments. Furthermore, it is accepted, as a working hypothesis, a primary surplus of R$ 155.9 billion for 2013 (around 3.10% of GDP), without adjustments, according to parameters set out in the Draft Budget Guidelines Law (PLDO) - 2013. For 2014, it is accepted, as a working hypothesis, a primary surplus of 3.10% of GDP, without adjustments. 
16. The set of projections incorporated the estimated effects of the reduction in the neutral interest rate identified over the last years. 
17. The main scenario does not include the occurrence of extreme events in international financial markets, and considers the estimates of the impacts caused by changes in the external environment on the Brazilian economy. 
18. Since the last Copom meeting, the median of the expectations compiled by the BCB’s Investor Relations and Special Studies Department (Gerin) for the 2012 IPCA decreased from 5.17% to 4.85%. For 2013, the median of inflation expectations also reduced from 5.60% to 5.50%. Specifically for banks, asset managers and other institutions (real sector companies, brokers, consultancies and others), the median of expectations for the 2012 IPCA changed to 4.87%, 4.85.% and 4.85% from 5.09%, 5.17% and 5.20%, respectively. For 2013, the median changed to 5.50%, 5.70% and 5.46% from 5.50%, 5.80% and 5.44%, in the same order. 
19. The benchmark scenario assumes the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$2.00/US$1.00 and the Selic rate at 8.50% p.y. during the forecast period. Under this scenario, the projection for the 2012 inflation decreased relative to the figure considered at the May Copom meeting and it stands around the 4.50% midpoint target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). According to the market scenario, which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin in the period immediately prior to the Copom meeting, IPCA inflation forecast for 2012 remained stable around the midpoint inflation target. For 2013, the inflation projection reduced in both scenarios, but still stands above the midpoint target in both cases. 
20. The Copom evaluates that monetary policy should contribute to the consolidation of a favorable longer-term macroeconomic environment. In this respect, the Copom reassures that, under the inflation targeting regime, it guides its decisions according to BCB projected inflation and based on the analysis of alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine prices dynamics. The Committee also understands that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to reduce uncertainties regarding the future behavior of headline inflation, facilitate the assessment of scenarios by the monetary authority, as well as help the process of coordination of economic agents’ expectations, particularly price setters’. Additionally, it is noteworthy that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to intensify the effects of monetary policy actions, enabling them to affect in a more long-lasting manner the dynamics of headline inflation in the future. Although the Copom recognizes that other macroeconomic policy actions may influence the prices trajectory, it reaffirms its view that it is particularly under the responsibility of the monetary policy to remain especially vigilant to guarantee that pressures detected in shorter horizons do not spread to longer horizons. 
21. International evidence, ratified by the Brazilian experience, indicates that high inflation rates lead to the increase in risk premia, both for private and public funding, and to the shortening of planning horizons, both for households and companies. Consequently, high inflation rates reduce investments and economic growth potential, in addition to presenting regressive effects on income distribution. In other words, high inflation rates do not originate any lasting results for economic and employment growth, on the contrary, they create permanent damage to these variables in the medium and long terms. Therefore, the strategy adopted by the Copom aims to ensure the convergence of inflation towards the targets path, which requires that possible deviations from the target path be promptly corrected. Such strategy takes into account the time lags in the transmission mechanism and is the most adequate to deal with the uncertainty inherent to the process of monetary policy formulation and implementation. 
22. The Copom considers that, since its last meeting, the risks to global financial stability have remained high, particularly those deriving from the ongoing deleveraging process observed in the main economic blocks. The Committee understands that, overall, the prospects of more moderate global activity than previously anticipated have consolidated, and the restrictions to which several mature economies were exposed have changed little. It also notes that, in these economies, there seems to be limited leeway for monetary policy actions, and a scenario of fiscal restraint also prevails, in this and in the upcoming years. Moreover, in important emerging economies, despite the resilience of domestic demand, the pace of activity has moderated, in part, as a consequence of policy actions and the weakening of external demand. In specific cases, changes in the growth pattern tend to be permanent. Therefore, until now, the Committee evaluates that the international scenario has shown disinflationary bias. 
23. For the Copom, there are cumulative evidences supporting the view that the transmission of external developments to the Brazilian economy materializes through several channels, among others, moderation of total trade, moderation in investment flows and tighter credit conditions. Another transmission channel of great importance is the impact over businessmen confidence. The Committee understands that the effects of the complexity surrounding the international environment added up to those stemming from the moderation of domestic activity. 
24. The Copom evaluates, however, that although domestic demand expansion has also been moderate, prospects for economic activity in this and in the upcoming semesters are favorable, with some asymmetry among the several sectors. This assessment is supported by signs that point to moderate expansion of credit supply both for individuals and corporate, and by the fact that consumers’ and, to a lesser extent, businessmen’s confidence, stands at high levels. The Committee understands, additionally, that the domestic activity will continue to be benefited by public transfers, as well as by the labor market vigor, mirrored in historically low unemployment rates and in wages growth, despite some accommodation at the margin. 
25. The Copom reaffirms its view that inflation accumulated in twelve months, which started to retreat in the last quarter of 2011, tends to continue the decline and, therefore, to move towards the targets path. The Committee evaluates that the reversion in the inflation trend will contribute to improve the economic agents’ expectations, especially price setters’, about the inflation dynamics in this and in the upcoming quarters. 
26. The Copom notes that the main inflation scenario considers the materialization of the assumed trajectories regarding fiscal variables. It bears highlighting that the generation of primary surpluses in line with the hypotheses considered for inflation projections, in addition to contributing to reduce the mismatch between supply and demand growth rates, will strengthen the reduction trend of the public debt-to-GDP ratio and the positive perception regarding the macroeconomic environment in the medium and long terms. 
27. The Copom highlights that its main scenario also considers moderate expansion in the credit market. Still about the credit market, the Committee considers opportune the initiatives with the aim of moderating the concession of subsidies through credit operations. 
28. The Copom evaluates as decreasing the risks stemming from the persistence of the mismatch, in specific segments, between supply and demand growth rates. However, it highlights the narrow idleness margin in the labor market, despite the signs of moderation in this market, and considers that, under such circumstances, an important risk stems from the possibility of concession of wages increases incompatible with productivity growth and their negative impacts over inflation dynamics. On the other hand, the Copom notes that the level of installed capacity utilization has stabilized and is below the long-term trend, in other words, it is contributing to the opening of the output gap and to contain prices pressures. 
29. The Committee considers that the recovery in domestic economic activity has materialized quite gradually, on the other hand, it highlights that the main scenario encompasses more intense pace of activity this semester. The Committee identifies decrease in the probability of extreme events in international financial markets, but at the same time, it argues that recent developments indicate postponement of a final solution for the European financial crisis, and that risks associated to the process of deleveraging – of banks, households and government - now under way in the main economic blocs remain high. These and other elements, therefore, constitute an economic environment in which a much above-than-usual uncertainty level prevails. For the Committee, the prospective scenario for inflation, since the last meeting, maintained favorable signs. The Committee also notes that, according to the main scenario adopted, the inflation rate stands around the target in 2012. 
30. In short, the Copom considers that, at the present moment, the risks for the inflation trajectory remain limited. The Committee also notes that, until now, due to the global economy’s fragility, the external sector contribution has been disinflationary. 
32. The Copom evaluates that domestic demand tends to show robustness, especially household consumption, largely due to the effects of stimulus factors, such as income growth and moderate credit expansion. This scenario tends to prevail in this and in the upcoming semesters, when domestic demand will be impacted by the effects of monetary policy actions recently implemented, which are, in short, lagged and cumulative. The Committee considers that recent initiatives indicate scenario of neutrality of the public sector balance sheet. The Committee notes that the still fragile international scenario presents itself as an important factor restraining aggregate demand. These elements and quasi fiscal developments are an important part of the context in which future monetary policy decisions will be taken, aiming to ensure the timely convergence of inflation to the targets path. 
33. The Copom understands that the Brazilian economy has experienced significant structural changes, which determined retreat in the interest rates in general and, in particular, in the neutral rate. Among the factors that support this view, it bears highlighting the reduction of risk premia, a direct consequence of the accomplishment of the inflation target for the eighth consecutive year, of the macroeconomic stability and of institutional improvements. Moreover, the process of interest rates reduction was favored by changes in the structure of the financial and capital markets, by the credit market deepening, as well as by the generation of primary surpluses consistent with the maintenance of decreasing trend for the public debt-to-GDP ratio. For the Committee, all these changes are characterized by a high degree of persistence – although, due to the economic cycles themselves, specific and temporary reversions may occur – and contribute for the Brazilian economy’s current solid indicators of solvency and liquidity. 
34. The Copom also considers that the increase in the supply of external savings and the reduction of its funding cost have contributed to the reduction of the domestic interest rates, including the neutral rate, which, according to the Committee's assessment, are largely permanent developments. 