1. Monthly inflation measured by the Extended Consumer Price Index (IPCA) reached 0.47% in March, 0.26 percentage points (p.p.) above the registered in March 2012. As a consequence, inflation in twelve months reached 6.59% in March (compared to 5.24% in March 2012). Market prices changed 8.20% in twelve months (5.49% until March 2012), and regulated prices, 1.61% (4.58% until March 2012). Among market prices, the prices of tradable goods increased 6.90%, and the prices of non-tradable goods, 9.35%. The prices of food and beverages group, still impacted by weather-related factors, increased by 1.14% in March and reached 13.49% in twelve months (6.30% until March 2012). The prices of services rose 8.38% in twelve months (7.75% until March 2012). In short, services inflation remains at high levels, and there are pressures in the food and beverages segment. 
2. The average of the underlying inflation measures, calculated by the BCB, changed from 0.59% in February to 0.41% in March, and on a twelve-month trailing basis, it moved from 5.97% in February to 6.14% in March. Specifically, the smoothed trimmed means IPCA core inflation retreated from 0.53% in February to 0.47% in March, the non-smoothed trimmed means, from 0.61% to 0.48%, the double weight core inflation, from 0.55% to 0.46%, and the core inflation by exclusion of regulated prices and household food, from 1.00% to 0.31%. On the other hand, the core inflation by exclusion, which excludes ten household food and fuels items, increased from 0.28% to 0.35%. 
3. Inflation measured by the General Price Index (IGP-DI) increased 0.31% in March and 0.20% in February, and accumulates change of 7.97% in the twelve months through March (3.32% in the twelve months through March 2012). In this period, the main component of this indicator, the Wholesale Price Index (IPA), changed 8.78%, mainly influenced by pressures stemming from the agricultural sector, driven by unfavorable supply shocks. According to the breakdown by stage of production, there were increases in the prices of raw materials (8.48%), intermediate goods (9.00%) and final goods (8.64%), according to the same comparison basis. Inflation measured by the Consumer Price Index (IPC), the second most important component of the IGP-DI, stood at 6.16% in twelve months through March (5.50% in the twelve months through March 2012). The Civil Construction National Index (INCC), component with the lowest weight in the IGP-DI, changed 7.18% in the period (8.10% in the twelve months through March 2012), partially driven by the increase in labor cost. On its turn, the Producer/Manufacturing Industry Price Index (IPP/IT), calculated by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), increased 7.73% in twelve months, despite the retreats of 0.10% in January and 0.33% in February. The Copom considers that the effects of the behavior of wholesale prices on consumer inflation will depend on the current and prospective demand conditions and on the price setters' expectations regarding the future inflation path. 
4. The Economic Activity Index of the BCB (IBC-Br) incorporates estimates for the monthly production of the three sectors of the economy, as well as for taxes on products, and constitutes important coincident indicator of economic activity. Considering seasonally adjusted data, the IBC-Br retreated by 0.5% in February, after increasing by 1.4% in January. Year-over-year, the economy grew 3.8% in January and 0.4% in February, with twelve-month trailing growth moving from 0.8% in January to 0.9% in February. The Consumer Confidence Index (ICC), from the Getúlio Vargas Foundation (FGV), retreated for the sixth consecutive month in March, considering seasonally adjusted data. On its turn, the Services Sector Confidence Index (ICS) increased in March, reflecting the improvement in the perception of the current situation. The industrial businessmen confidence, measured by the Industry Confidence Index (ICI), retreated in March, after three consecutive months of elevation. Regarding agriculture, the Agricultural Production Systematic Assessment, carried out by the IBGE, indicates that grains production should grow by 12.0% in 2013, relative to the 2012 harvest. 
5. Credit conditions indicators, elaborated by the BCB based on quarterly consultation to institutions representing each credit market segment, evidence, for the second quarter of 2013, expectation of moderate increase in the pace of concessions of new credit operations for all segments. For corporate, the expectation of concessions’ increase is partially due to the expectations of improvement in the domestic economy conditions and of retreat in the delinquency rate relative to micro, small and medium-sized companies. Regarding credit to individuals, an increase in concessions is expected, boosted by the retreat in delinquency and in the household banking debt service, in the case of consumer credit, and by the competition, in the case of the housing segment. 
6. Manufacturing activity retreated 2.5% in February, after a 2.6% increase in January, according to the general industrial production series seasonally adjusted by the IBGE. Production decreased in 15 of the 27 branches of activity. Thus, the production grew 0.3% in the quarter ended in February, quarter-over-quarter. On its turn, industrial production accumulated in the last twelve months changed from -2.0% in January to -1.9% in February. According to data released by the National Confederation of Industry (CNI), real revenue in the manufacturing industry increased 0.5% in February, compared to the same month of the previous year, and the number of worked hours decreased 0.9%. 
7. Among the industry use categories, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, and considering the month-on-month growth in February, the production of capital goods grew 1.6%. At the same time, the production of intermediate goods changed -1.3%, the production of durable consumer goods, -6.8%, and the production of semi-durable and nondurable consumer goods, -2.1%. Year-over-year, the production of capital goods increased 9.1%, the production of intermediate goods retreated 4.4%, the production of durable consumer goods changed -2.2%, and the one related to semi-durable and non-durable consumer goods, -5.8%. Growth accumulated in the last twelve months through February showed retreat in all use categories: capital goods, -7.8%, intermediate goods, -1.5%, semi-durable and non-durable consumer goods, -0.4%, and durable consumer goods, -0.3%. 
8. The unemployment rate in the six metropolitan areas covered by the Monthly Employment Survey (PME), without seasonal adjustment, was estimated at 5.6% in February (5.7% in February 2012). According to the BCB seasonally adjusted series, the unemployment rate in March retreated to 5.3% - equal to the record low of the historical series started in March 2002. The reduction in the Working Age Population (WAP) growth rate during the last years has contributed to the process of reduction in the unemployment rates. On its turn, the occupation level retreated for the third consecutive month and reached 54.0% of the WAP in February. Still according to the PME, the average real income increased 2.4% in March, year-over- year, and real payroll increased 4.1%, also compared to February 2012. Data released by the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) show that, in March, 112.5 thousand formal jobs were created (111.7 thousand in March 2012), with positive results in six out of the eight sectors of the economic activity. In short, the set of available data indicates narrow idleness margin in the labor market, despite some signs of accommodation at the margin. 
9. According to the retail monthly survey (PMC) from IBGE, broad retail sales volume increased 1.2% in February, year-over-year. Retail sales volume retracted 0.2%, according to the same comparison basis. Month-on-month, broad retail sales changed by -0.7% in February, according to the seasonally adjusted series, and retail sales, by -0.4%. However, the broad retail sales growth rate in 2012 stood at 7.8%, with expansion in all ten sectors surveyed, with highlights for furniture and appliances (10.4%) and pharmaceutical, medical, orthopedic and perfumery articles (10.2%). On its turn, the Trade Confidence Index (ICOM), measured by the FGV, retreated for the fourth consecutive month in the quarter ended in March. For the upcoming months, the retail sales trajectory will continue to be influenced by governmental transfers, by the pace of real payroll growth and by moderate credit expansion. 
10. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry, calculated by the FGV, without seasonal adjustment, stood at 83.3% in March (83.0% in March 2012). According to the seasonally adjusted series calculated by the FGV, the Nuci stood at 84.1% in March. Capacity utilization in the capital goods sector, according to the seasonally adjusted series, increased to 84.2%. In the sector of consumer goods, intermediate goods and construction inputs, the levels stood at 84.2%, 84.8% and 89.1%, respectively. 
11. The twelve-month trailing trade balance result retreated to US$11.8 billion in March. This result stemmed from US$238.3 billion in exports and US$226.5 billion in imports, associated to changes of -8.3% and -1.9%, respectively, compared to the previous twelve months. On its turn, the current account deficit accumulated in twelve months reached US$63.5 billion in February, equivalent to 2.8% of GDP, while the foreign direct investment totaled US$63.7 billion in the twelve months through February, equivalent to 2.8% of GDP. 
12. In the global economy, low growth prospects for a long period in important advanced economies remain and there was stability in the volatility and risk aversion indicators, despite negative shocks in the financial system in the Euro Zone. High unemployment rates, coupled with the fiscal consolidation and political uncertainties, are translated into projections of low growth for advanced economies, mainly in Europe. The compound leading indicator released by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), related to February, continues to indicate growth in the United States (US) and in Japan, with possible recover of activity levels in the Euro Zone. On its turn, the disaggregated indicators of the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI), related to March, indicate continuity of growth in the US, in Japan and in important emerging economies, especially in the Southeast Asia. Regarding monetary policy, the advanced economies have persisted with accommodative stances. The Bank of Japan (BoJ) has announced a larger-than-expected program for the monetary base expansion, with potential positive effects over economic activity and in the asset prices, especially in the Southeast Asia. In the emerging economies, in general, monetary policy is expansionist. Inflation has remained at moderate levels in the US and in the Euro Zone, and negative in Japan. 
13. The price of Brent oil barrel has retreated, since the previous Copom meeting, for a level close to US$105. It bears highlighting that the geopolitical complexity that involves the oil sector tends to heighten the volatile behavior of prices, which also reflects the low predictability of some global demand components and of the dependency of supply growth on long term risky investment projects. As measured by the Commodity Research Bureau (CRB), since the last Copom meeting, the international prices of metallic commodities have retreated 4,5%, while the agricultural ones have increased 0.9%. On its turn, the Food Price Index, calculated by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), accumulates a change of -1.7% in the twelve months through March 2013. 
14. The identified shocks, and their impacts, were reassessed according to the new set of available information. The scenario considered in the simulations was based on the following assumptions: 
a) the projected adjustment for gasoline price in 2013 was maintained at 5%, unchanged relative to the March Copom meeting, 
b) the projected adjustment for household electricity price points to a decrease of nearly 15%, unchanged relative to the March Copom meeting. This estimate considers the direct impacts of the sector charges reductions recently announced, as well as readjustments and ordinary tariff revisions planned for this year, 
c) for 2013, bottled gas prices are projected to remain stable and fixed telephone tariff is projected to decrease 2.0%, 
d) the projected adjustment, based on individual items, for the set of regulated prices inflation accumulated in 2013 remained at 2.7%, unchanged relative to the March Copom meeting, and 
e) the projected adjustment for the set of regulated prices accumulated in 2014 was maintained at 4.5%, the same value considered at the March Copom meeting. This projection is based on endogenous determination models for regulated prices, which compute, among other factors, seasonal components, market prices inflation, and the inflation measured by the IGP (General Price Index). 
15. The projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, based on the 360-day swap rates, on the baseline scenario, estimates 47 bps and 18 bps spreads for the fourth quarter of 2013 and 2014, respectively. 
16. Regarding fiscal policy, projections assume the achievement in 2013 of the public sector primary surplus of R$ 155.9 billion, according to the parameters set out in the Budget Guidelines Law (LDO) – 2013. For 2014, as a working hypothesis, a primary surplus of R$167.4 billion is accepted, according to the parameters set out in the Budget Guidelines Law Project (PLDO) – 2014. 
17. The set of projections incorporates the estimated effects of the reduction in the neutral interest rate identified over the last years. 
18. Since the last Copom meeting, the median of the expectations compiled by Investor Relations and Special Studies Department (Gerin) for the 2013 IPCA decreased from 5.70% to 5.68%. For 2014, the median of the inflation expectations increased from 5.50% to 5.70%. Specifically for banks, asset managers and other institutions (real sector companies, brokers, consultancies and others), the median of the expectations for the 2013 IPCA changed from 5.67%, 5.73% and 5.61% to 5.66%, 5.71% and 5.68%, respectively. For 2014, the median of expectations changed from 5.55%, 5.80% and 5.38% to 5.70%, 5.85% and 5.50%, in the same order. 
19. The baseline scenario assumes the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$2.00/US$1.00 and the Selic rate at 7.25% p.a. during the forecast period. Under this scenario, the projection for the 2013 inflation remained stable relative to the figure considered at the March Copom meeting and stands above the 4.50% midpoint target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). According to the market scenario, which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin with market analysts, in the period immediately prior to the Copom meeting, 2013 IPCA inflation forecast decreased, but is above the midpoint inflation target. For 2014, inflation forecast increased relative to the figure considered at the March Copom meeting and stands above the midpoint inflation target, in baseline scenario. According to the market scenario, 2014 IPCA inflation forecast decreased, but is above the midpoint inflation target. 
20. The Copom evaluates that monetary policy should contribute to the consolidation of a favorable longer-term macroeconomic environment. In this respect, the Copom reassures that, under the inflation targeting regime, it guides its decisions according to BCB projected inflation and based on the analysis of alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine prices dynamics. The Copom also understands that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to reduce uncertainties regarding the future behavior of headline inflation, facilitate the assessment of scenarios by the monetary authority, as well as help the process of coordination of economic agents’ expectations, particularly prices setters’. Additionally, it is noteworthy that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to intensify the effects of monetary policy actions, enabling them to affect in a more long-lasting manner the dynamics of headline inflation in the future. Although the Copom recognizes that other macroeconomic policy actions may influence the prices trajectory, it reaffirms its view that it is particularly under the responsibility of the monetary policy to remain especially vigilant, to guarantee that pressures detected in shorter horizons do not spread to longer horizons. 
21. The Copom understands that there were significant structural changes in the Brazilian economy, which determined retreat in interest rates in general and, in particular, in the neutral rate. Among the factors that support this view, it bears highlighting the reduction in risk premia, a direct consequence of the accomplishment of the inflation target for the ninth consecutive year, of the macroeconomic stability and of institutional improvements. Moreover, the process of interest rates reduction was favored by changes in the structure of financial and capital markets, by the credit market deepening, as well as by the generation of primary surpluses consistent with the maintenance of the decreasing trend for the public debt-to-GDP ratio. For the Committee, all these transformations are characterized by high degree of persistence - although, due to the economic cycles themselves, specific and temporary reversions may occur - and contribute for the Brazilian economy’s current solid indicators of solvency and liquidity. 
22. The Copom also evaluates that the increase in the supply of external savings and the reduction of its funding cost, which, according to the Committee's assessment, are largely permanent developments, have contributed to the reduction of the domestic interest rates, including the neutral rate. 
23. The Copom considers that, since its last meeting, the risks to global financial stability remained high, particularly those derived from the ongoing deleveraging process in the main economic blocks. In this context, despite identifying low probability of occurrence of extreme events in the international financial markets, the Committee considers that the external environment remains complex. The Committee evaluates that, in general, the prospects for moderate global activity remained unchanged, with trend of intensification over the relevant horizon. In this context, there are localized improvements in advanced economies, although the space to use monetary policy remains limited and the fiscal restraint scenario prevails in this and in the upcoming years. In important emerging economies, however, the activity pace has intensified, supported by the resilience of domestic demand. The Committee also highlights evidences of accommodation of international commodities prices. 
24. The Copom evaluates that, despite the limitations in the supply side, the pace of domestic economic activity intensified in the first quarter. Moreover, it notes that recent data point to a resumption of investment and a growth trajectory, in the relevant horizon, more in line with potential growth. The Committee notes that the domestic demand will continue to be driven by the lagged effects of monetary policy actions recently implemented, as well as the moderate expansion of credit supply, both for individuals and corporates. Additionally, the domestic activity will continue to be favored by the public transfers, as well as by the strength of the labor market, which is reflected in historically low unemployment rates and wages growth, despite some accommodation at the margin. 
25. The Copom observes that the main inflation scenario considers the materialization of the assumed trajectories regarding fiscal variables, despite recent initiatives point to an expansionist position of the public sector balance. The Committee also notes that the generation of primary surpluses in line with the working hypotheses considered for inflation projections, in addition to contributing to reduce the mismatch between supply and demand growth rates, strengthens the reduction trend of the public debt-to-GDP ratio and the positive perception regarding the macroeconomic environment in the medium and long terms. 
26. The Copom highlights that its main scenario also considers moderate credit expansion. Still regarding the credit market, the Committee considers opportune initiatives with the aim of moderating the concessions of subsidies through credit operations. 
27. The Copom emphasizes that its main scenario includes more intense domestic activity in this an in the upcoming year. In this context, the Committee highlights the narrow idleness margin in the labor market, despite the signs of moderation in this market, and it considers that, under such circumstances, a significant risk stems from the possibility of concession of wages increases incompatible with productivity growth and their negative impacts over inflation dynamics. It bears noticing the recently observed moderation in the price dynamics of some real and financial assets, which, in the assumption of remaining at the current levels, will constitute disinflationary strength. 
28. The Copom evaluates that the high inflation level and the dispersion of price increases, among other factors, contribute for inflation to show resistance and demand a monetary policy response. On the other hand, the Committee considers that domestic and, mainly, external uncertainties surround the prospective scenario for inflation and recommend that monetary policy should be administered with caution. 
29. The judgment of all the Copom members is convergent with respect to the need for a monetary policy action aimed at neutralizing risks that arise in the prospective scenario for inflation, especially for the next year. Part of the Committee, however, considers that there is an ongoing reassessment of global growth and that this process, depending on its intensity and length, may cause positive impacts over domestic prices dynamics. For those members of the Committee, an immediate action of monetary policy would not be recommended, however, this view was not supported by the majority of the Board. 
30. In this context, the Copom decided to increase the Selic rate to 7.50% p.a., without bias, with six votes for the monetary policy action and two votes in favor of maintaining the Selic rate in 7.25% p.a.. 
32. The Copom evaluates that the domestic demand tends to show robustness, especially household consumption, largely due to the effects of stimulus factors, such as income growth and moderate credit expansion. This scenario tends to prevail in this and in the upcoming semesters, when domestic demand will be impacted by the effects of monetary policy actions recently implemented, which are, in short, lagged and cumulative. For the Committee, these effects, the programs of public services concession, the inventories at adjusted levels and the gradual recovery of businessmen’s confidence create prospects for investments intensification and industrial production recovery. The Committee considers that recent initiatives point to an expansionist position of the public sector balance. On the other hand, the Committee notes that the fragile international scenario still represents an aggregate demand restraining factor. These elements and the developments in the quasi fiscal framework and in the assets market are important parts of the context in which future monetary policy decisions will be taken, aiming to ensure the timely convergence of inflation to the targets path. 
33. The Copom emphasizes that the international evidence, in which it is ratified by the Brazilian experience, shows that high inflation rates generate distortions that lead to higher risks and depress investments. These distortions are manifested, for example, in the shortening of the planning horizons of households, businesses and governments, as well as in the deterioration of the businessmen’ confidence. The Committee also emphasizes that high inflation rates subtract the purchasing power of wages and transfers, with negative repercussions over households’ confidence and consumption. Therefore, high inflation rates reduce the growth potential of the economy, as well as of jobs and income generation.