1. Monthly inflation measured by the Extended Consumer Price Index (IPCA) changed 0.57% in October, 0.02 percentage points (p.p.) below the one recorded in October 2012. As a consequence, inflation in twelve months retreated to 5.84% in October (5.45% until October 2012). Market prices changed 7.37% in twelve months (6.23% until October 2012), and regulated prices recorded the record low (1.01%) of the historical series started in 1994, down from 3.23% until October 2012. Among market prices, the prices of tradable goods increased 6.38% (4.00% until October 2012), and the prices of non-tradable goods, 8.24% (8.27% until October 2012). The prices of food and beverages group registered 1.03% inflation in October, increasing by 8.88% in twelve months (10.40% until October 2012). On its turn, the prices of services rose 8.74% in twelve months (7.99% until October 2012). In short, regulated inflation retreats, at the same time that non-tradables inflation remains at high levels, and the tradables inflation is increasing. 
2. The average of the underlying inflation measures, calculated by the BCB, changed from 0.46% in September to 0.56% in October. As a consequence, on a twelve-month trailing basis, inflation reached 6.28% (1.03 p.p. above the one registered until October 2012). Specifically, the smoothed trimmed means IPCA core inflation changed from 0.43% in September to 0.58% in October. The double weight core inflation, from 0.46% to 0.61%, the core inflation by exclusion of regulated prices and household food, from 0.52% to 0.60%, the non-smoothed trimmed means core inflation, from 0.40% to 0.52%, and the core by exclusion, which excludes ten household food items and fuels, from 0.48% to 0.51%. The diffusion index stood at 67.7% in October (compared to 68.8% in the same month of the previous year). 
3. The General Price Index (IGP-DI) increased 0.63% in October, after increasing by 1.36% in September, accumulating change of 5.46% in the twelve months through October (7.41% in the twelve months through October 2012). The main component of this indicator, the Wholesale Price Index (IPA), changed 5.07% (against 7.92% until October 2012). According to the breakdown by stage of production, in the last twelve months, there were increases of 2.79% in the prices of raw materials, 6.49% in the prices of intermediate goods and of 5.68% in the prices of final goods. Inflation measured by the Consumer Price Index (IPC), the second most important component of the IGP-DI, changed 5.36% in the twelve months through October (5.97% in the twelve months through October 2012). The Civil Construction National Index (INCC), component with the lowest weight in the IGP-DI, changed 8.14% (7.47% in the twelve months through October 2012), partially driven by the labor cost, which increased 9.87% in the period. On its turn, the Producer/Manufacturing Industry Price Index (IPP/IT), calculated by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), increased 0.62% in September, expanding by 5.86% in twelve months. The Copom considers that the effects of the behavior of wholesale prices on consumer inflation will depend on the current and prospective demand conditions and on the price setters' expectations regarding the future inflation path. 
4. The Economic Activity Index of the BCB (IBC-Br) incorporates estimate for the monthly production of the three sectors of the economy, as well as for taxes on products, and constitutes important coincident indicator of economic activity. Considering seasonally adjusted data, the IBC-Br remained unchanged in September, after increasing by 0.1% in August. Year-over-year, the IBC-Br grew 1.3% in August and 3.3% in September. In the last twelve months, the indicator grew 2.5%. The composite Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) regarding Brazil pointed to intensification of the economic activity in October, when it reached the highest level since February. On its turn, the Consumer Confidence Index (ICC), from the Getúlio Vargas Foundation (FGV), expanded in November, according to the seasonally adjusted series, reverting part of the retreat observed in October. Likewise, the industrial businessmen confidence, measured by the Industry Confidence Index (ICI), pointed to recovery in November. Regarding agriculture, the Agricultural Production Systematic Assessment (LSPA), carried out by the IBGE, indicates that grains production should grow by 15.4% in 2013, relative to the 2012 harvest. 
5. Industrial activity, after stability in August, expanded by 0.7% in September, according to the seasonally adjusted series released by the IBGE. Therefore, the industrial production stood 2.0% above the one registered in September 2012 (increase of 1.1% in the last twelve months). The monthly production between January and September was 1.6% above the one registered in the same period of last year, with highlight for the production of automotive vehicles, with expansion of 11.2%, as well as for oil refining and ethanol production, of 7.7%. The production pace grew in 16 out of the 27 surveyed activities, according to the same comparison basis. The PMI of the industrial sector regarding Brazil indicates new improvement in October. According to data released by the National Confederation of Industry (CNI), real revenue in the manufacturing industry increased 4.9% in the first three quarters of the year, compared to the same period of the previous year, while the number of hours worked grew 0.1%. 
6. Among the use categories, according to data seasonally adjusted by the IBGE, the production of capital goods increased 4.0% in September, the production of durable consumer goods, 2.3%, the production of intermediate goods remained unchanged and the production of semidurable and non-durable consumer goods retreated 1.4%. Regarding growth accumulated in the last twelve months through September, there were expansions in the production of capital goods (7.8%), durable consumer goods (3.1%), semidurable and non-durable consumer goods (0.2%) and in intermediate goods (0.1%). 
7. The unemployment rate in the six metropolitan areas covered by the Monthly Employment Survey (PME), without seasonal adjustment, retreated to 5.2% in October. Moreover, according to the BCB seasonally adjusted series, the unemployment rate in October reached again the record low of the historical series (5.3%), started in March 2002. It bears noticing that the reduction of the Working Age Population (WAP) growth rate in the last years has contributed for the maintenance of the idleness rate at historically low levels. In addition, in October, the economically active population share represented 57.1% of the WAP (1.0 p.p. below the observed in October 2012). Still according to the PME, the average real income increased 1.8% in October, year-over-year, while real payroll increased 1.4%, according to the same comparison basis. Data released by the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) show that 95 thousand formal jobs were created in October (compared to 67 thousand in October 2012). In short, the set of available data indicates narrow idleness margin in the labor market, although there are some signs of moderation at the margin. 
8. According to the retail monthly survey (PMC), released by the IBGE, broad retail sales volume, which includes vehicles and construction inputs, increased by 7.5% in September, year-over-year, and retail sales volume grew by 4.1%. According to the seasonally adjusted series, the month-on-month broad retail sales changed by -0.7%, and retail sales, by 0.5%. In the last twelve months, the broad retail sales growth rate reached 4.9%, with expansion in all ten sectors surveyed. The Trade Confidence Index (ICOM), measured by the FGV, recorded the third consecutive high in October, due to improvements both in the current situation and in expectations. The Copom evaluates that the retail sales trajectory will continue to be influenced by governmental transfers, by the pace of real payroll growth and by the moderate credit expansion. 
9. The installed capacity utilization rate (Nuci) in the manufacturing industry, calculated by the FGV, without seasonal adjustment, reached 85.5% in November (85.2% in November 2012). According to the seasonally adjusted series calculated by the FGV, the Nuci in November reached 84.3%. Capacity utilization in the capital goods sector, according to the seasonally adjusted series, stood at 82.8%. In the sector of consumer goods, intermediate goods and construction inputs, the utilization capacity stood at 84.7%, 85.4% and 91.4%, respectively. On its turn, the absorption of capital goods grew 8.0% in the last twelve months ended in September. 
10. The twelve-month trailing trade balance result retreated to US$218 million in October. This result stemmed from US$240.7 billion in exports and US$240.5 billion in imports, which diminished 2.3% and increased 7.1%, respectively, compared to the previous twelve months. On its turn, the current account deficit, accumulated in twelve months, reached US$82.2 billion in October, equivalent to 3.7% of the GDP. Foreign direct investment totaled US$59.1 billion in the twelve months through October, equivalent to 2.6% of the GDP. 
11. In the global economy, a scenario of low growth prospects in important advanced economies prevails, notably in the Euro Zone, but, overall, a more benign scenario is anticipated for the upcoming year. High unemployment rates in Europe, coupled with the efforts of fiscal consolidation and political uncertainties, are translated into investment retreat and in low growth. On the other hand, the composite leading indicator, released by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), referring to September, and the PMI coincident indicators, relative to October and November, signal improvements at the margin in several advanced and emerging economies, with prospects of growth in line with the trend or above it. Regarding monetary policy, accommodative stances have prevailed in the advanced economies. In emerging economies, in general, monetary policy is expansionist. Inflation has remained at moderate or low levels in the US, in the Euro Zone and in Japan. 
12. The price of the Brent oil barrel has been volatile and has slightly increased since the previous Copom meeting. It bears highlighting that the geopolitical complexity that involves the oil sector tends to heighten the volatile behavior of prices, which also reflects the low predictability of some global demand components and the dependency of supply growth on long term risky investment projects. Since the last Copom meeting, the international prices of agricultural commodities have retreated 4.0%, while the ones relative to metals have increased 1.7%. On its turn, the Food Price Index, calculated by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), changed -5.3% in the twelve months through October 2013. 
13. The identified shocks, and their impacts, were reassessed according to the new set of available information. The scenario considered in the simulations was based on the following assumptions: 
a) the projected adjustment for gasoline price for the whole year of 2013 was maintained at 5%, unchanged relative to the value considered at the October Copom meeting, 
b) the projected adjustment for household electricity price points to a decrease of nearly 16%, unchanged relative to the October Copom meeting. This estimate considers the direct impacts of the sector charges reductions announced, as well as price hikes and ordinary tariff revisions planned for this year, 
c) for the whole year of 2013, bottled gas prices are projected to increase by 2.5% and the fixed telephone tariff is projected to decrease 1.0%, the same values considered at the October Copom meeting, 
d) the projected adjustment, based on individual items, for the set of regulated prices inflation accumulated for the whole year of 2013, retreated to 1.2%, 0.3 p.p. below the value considered at the October Copom meeting, and 
e) the projected cumulative adjustment for the set of regulated prices in 2014 was maintained at 4.5%, the same value considered at the October Copom meeting. These projections are based on endogenous determination models for regulated prices, which compute, among other factors, seasonal components, market prices inflation, and the inflation measured by the IGP (General Price Index). 
14. The projection for the spreads over the Selic rate, based on the 360-day swap rates, on the baseline scenario, estimates 103 bps and 5 bps spreads for the fourth quarters of 2013 and 2014, respectively. 
15. The structural primary surplus that derives from the primary surplus trajectories for 2013 is considered as the fiscal indicator, according to the parameters set out in the Budget Guidelines Law (LDO)/2013, and, for 2014, according to the parameters set out in the Budget Guidelines Law Project (PLDO)/2014. Therefore, in a given period, the inflation projection considers as fiscal impulse the variation of the structural surplus in comparison to the observed in the previous period. 
16. Since the last Copom meeting, the median of the projections compiled by the Investor Relations and Special Studies Department (Gerin) for the 2013 IPCA remained at 5.82%. For 2014, the median of the inflation projections decreased from 5.95% to 5.92%. 
17. The baseline scenario assumes the maintenance of the exchange rate at R$2.30/US$1.00 and the Selic rate at 9.50% p.a. during the forecast period. Under this scenario, the projection for the 2013 inflation decreased relative to the value considered at the previous Copom meeting, however, it remains above the 4.50% midpoint target established by the National Monetary Council (CMN). According to the market scenario, which incorporates the consensus exchange and Selic rates trajectories collected by Gerin with market analysts, in the period immediately prior to the Copom meeting, the 2013 IPCA inflation forecast also decreased relative to the value considered at the October meeting, and also stands above the inflation target. For 2014, in the baseline scenario, the inflation forecast remained stable, and in the market scenario, it decreased, relative to the figures considered at the October Copom meeting, standing both above the 4.5% target. For the third quarter of 2015, the inflation forecast stands above the target in both scenarios. 
18. The Copom evaluates that the monetary policy should contribute to the consolidation of a favorable longer-term macroeconomic environment. In this respect, the Copom reassures that, under the inflation targeting regime, it guides its decisions according to BCB projected inflation and based on the analysis of alternative scenarios for the evolution of the main variables that determine prices dynamics. The Committee also understands that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to reduce uncertainties regarding the future behavior of headline inflation, facilitate the assessment of scenarios by the monetary authority, as well as help the process of coordination of economic agents’ expectations, particularly prices setters’. Additionally, it is noteworthy that low risks for the underlying inflation in the short run tend to intensify the effects of monetary policy actions, enabling them to affect in a more long-lasting manner the dynamics of headline inflation in the future. Although the Copom recognizes that other macroeconomic policy actions may influence the prices trajectory, it reaffirms its view that it is particularly under the responsibility of the monetary policy to remain especially vigilant, to guarantee that pressures detected in shorter horizons do not spread to longer horizons. 
19. The Copom considers that, since its last meeting, the risks to global financial stability remained high, particularly those derived from the ongoing deleveraging process in the main economic blocks. Despite identifying low probability of occurrence of extreme events in the international financial markets, the Committee considers that the external environment remains complex. The Committee evaluates that, in general, the prospects for moderate global activity this year have remained, with trend of intensification over the relevant horizon for the monetary policy. There are improvements in advanced economies, although the space to use monetary policy remains limited and the fiscal restraint scenario prevails in this and in the upcoming years. In important emerging economies, however, the activity pace has not matched the expectations, despite the resilience of domestic demand. The Committee highlights evidences of accommodation of commodities prices in the international markets, as well as the presence, since the last meeting, of some tension and volatility episodes in the currencies’ markets. 
20. The Copom evaluates that the main scenario encompasses a more intense domestic activity pace in this and in the upcoming year. Recent information indicate resumption of investments and continuity of household consumption growth, the latter favored by public transfers and by the vigor in the labor market - which reflects in historically low unemployment rates and in wages’ growth. In general, domestic absorption has expanded at rates higher than GDP growth rates and tends to be benefited by the effects of fiscal policy actions, by the expansion of credit supply, by the program of public services concessions, and by the program of permission for oil exploration, among other factors. Regarding the external component of the aggregate demand, the main scenario anticipates a more benign trajectory than that registered in recent years. However, the Committee notes that the speed of materialization of these expected gains depends on the confidence strengthening of companies and households. 
21. The Copom observes that the main inflation scenario considers the materialization of the assumed trajectories regarding fiscal variables. For the Committee, conditions are created so that, in the relevant horizon for monetary policy, the balance of the public sector shifts to the neutral zone. The Committee also notes that the generation of primary surpluses in line with the working hypotheses considered for inflation projections, on the one hand, would contribute to reduce the mismatch between supply and demand growth rates, on the other hand, it would contribute to create a positive perception regarding the macroeconomic environment in the medium and long terms. 
22. The Copom highlights that its main scenario also considers moderate credit expansion. Still regarding the credit market, the Committee considers opportune initiatives with the aim of moderating the concessions of subsidies through credit operations. 
23. In the factors market, the Copom highlights the narrow idleness margin in the labor market and it considers that, under such circumstances, a significant risk stems from the possibility of concession of wages increases incompatible with productivity growth and their negative impacts over inflation. Despite the moderation signs, the Committee evaluates that the wages dynamics remains originating inflationary cost pressures. 
24. The Committee considers that the exchange rate depreciation and volatility observed in the recent quarters enable a natural and expected correction in relative prices. For the Committee, these movements in the local currency market, to some extent, reflect prospects for the transition of international financial markets towards normality, among other dimensions, in terms of liquidity and interest rates. It is also important to highlight that, for the Committee, the aforementioned exchange rate depreciation is a source of inflationary pressure in shorter periods. However, the secondary effects stemming from it, and that would tend to materialize over longer periods, can and should be limited by appropriate monetary policy handling. 
25. The Copom evaluates that the high consumer inflation level in the last twelve months contributes for inflation to still show resistance. In this context, the formal and informal indexation mechanisms and the economic agents’ perception regarding the inflation dynamics are also included. Considering the damage that the persistence of this process would cause to the decision-making process on consumption and investment, in the Committee’s view, it is necessary that, with the due promptness, it is reverted. In this context, the Committee considers that it is appropriate to continue the ongoing adjustment pace of the monetary conditions. 
26. Therefore, continuing the adjustment process of the basic interest rate, initiated at the April 2013 meeting, the Copom unanimously decided to increase the Selic rate to 10.00% p.a., without bias. 
28. The Copom evaluates that the domestic demand tends to be relatively robust. On the one hand, household consumption tends to continue expanding, due to the effects of stimulus factors, such as income growth and moderate credit expansion, on the other hand, favorable financial conditions, concessions of public services, expansion of oil exploration areas, among others, create good prospects for investments. However, the Committee notes that the fragile international scenario still represents an aggregate demand restraining factor, despite the prospects of progress in the relevant horizon. These elements and the developments in the quasi fiscal framework and in the assets market are important parts of the context in which future monetary policy decisions will be taken, aiming to ensure the timely convergence of inflation to the targets path. 
29. The Copom emphasizes that the international evidence, in which it is ratified by the Brazilian experience, indicates that high inflation rates generate distortions that lead to higher risks and depress investments. These distortions are manifested, for example, in the shortening of the planning horizons of households, companies and governments, as well as in the deterioration of the businessmen confidence. The Committee also emphasizes that high inflation rates subtract the purchasing power of wages and transfers, with negative repercussions over household’s confidence and consumption. Therefore, high inflation rates reduce the growth potential of the economy, as well as of jobs and income generation.