1. Economic activity data as of the second quarter indicate that the recovery process of the Brazilian economy picked up relative to the first quarter of 2019. Copom's baseline scenario assumes that this recovery will occur at a gradual pace. 
2. Data suggest that the economy continues to operate with a high level of economic slack, as reflected in the low readings of traditional measures of industrial capacity utilization and, mainly, in the unemployment rate. 
3. Regarding the global outlook, the provision of monetary stimulus in major economies, in a context of below-target inflation, has been able to generate a relatively favorable environment for emerging economies. 
4. Various measures of underlying inflation are running at comfortable levels, including the components that are most sensitive to the business cycle and monetary policy. 
5. Inflation expectations for 2019, 2020, 2021, and 2022 collected by the Focus survey are around 3.8%, 3.6%, 3.75%, and 3.5%, respectively. 
6. The Copom's inflation projections in the scenario with interest rate and exchange rate paths extracted from the Focus survey stand around 4.0% for 2019, 3.5% for 2020, and 3.4% for 2021. This scenario assumes a path for the Selic rate that ends 2019 at 4.50% p.a., falls to 4.25% p.a. at the beginning of 2020, ends that year at 4.50% p.a., and rises to 6.25% p.a. in 2021. It also assumes a path for the exchange rate that ends 2019 at R$4.15/US$, 2020 at R$4.10/US$ and 2021 at R$4.00/US$. In this scenario, inflation projections for administered prices are 5.1% for 2019, 3.6% for 2020, and 3.5% for 2021. 
7. The hybrid scenario with a constant exchange rate at R$4.20/US$2 and the interest rate path from the Focus survey yields inflation projections around 4.0% for 2019, 3.7% for 2020, and 3.7% for 2021. In this scenario, inflation projections for administered prices are 5.1% for 2019, 3.9% for 2020, and 4.1% for 2021. 
8. The Copom?s baseline scenario for inflation encompasses risk factors in both directions. 
9. On the one hand, (i) the high level of economic slack may continue to produce a lower-than-expected prospective inflation trajectory. 
10. On the other hand, (ii) in the context of changes in financial intermediation, the current degree of monetary stimulus, which affects the economy with lags, increases the uncertainty about the transmission channels and may raise the path for inflation over the relevant horizon for the conduct of monetary policy. Risk (ii) intensifies in case of (iii) a deterioration of the outlook for emerging economies or (iv) a possible frustration regarding the continuation of reforms and the perseverance in the necessary adjustments in the Brazilian economy. 
11. Copom members discussed the evolution of economic activity in light of the available information and indicators. They concluded that data released since their previous meeting suggest that the Brazilian economy growth has picked up. Subsequent quarters should show some acceleration, which should be reinforced by the stimuli resulting from the release of FGTS and PIS-PASEP resources ? impacting mainly the last quarter of 2019. Copom?s baseline inflation scenario assumes that the pace of underlying economic activity growth ? which excludes the effects of temporary stimuli ? will be gradual. 
12. Copom members also evaluated the evolution of financial conditions indicators. They concluded that the conditions are favorable, despite some volatility inherent to those measures. The environment with favorable financial conditions results from the increase in the degree of monetary stimulus, the relatively favorable external environment for emerging economies and the prospects for improving the fundamentals of the Brazilian economy, as a result of the reform agenda and necessary adjustments. This easing of financial conditions has been more clearly reflected in the dynamics of non-earmarked credit and capital markets, which are growing at robust rates in this stage of the economic cycle. Some Copom members pointed out that there is evidence of the beginning of a gradual process of financial disintermediation. 
13. The Committee also discussed the characteristics of the current business cycle, with a smaller role for the public sector in the economy, and its possible implications for monetary policy. Some Copom members pointed out that changes in the credit market and financial intermediation, such as the greater role played by non-earmarked credit and capital markets, may have an impact on the monetary policy transmission channel. Copom members also conjectured about the sensitivity of macroeconomic variables to monetary policy, since there are no historical precedents in the Brazilian history for the current degree of stimulus. Copom members judge that changes in the credit and capital markets tend to bolster the power of monetary policy. 
14. Copom members also reflected on the level of economic slack. Some members argued that the latest activity data and the greater efficiency of the credit and capital markets may result in a faster decline in economic slack than anticipated, and thus produce upward pressure on inflation. On the other hand, the members of the Committee stressed that the dynamics of the inflation cores measures indicate that the level of economic slack is still high. 
15. Regarding the global outlook, the Committee members deemed the scenario as relatively favorable for emerging economies. Central banks of several economies ? some major economies included ? have provided monetary stimuli, which contribute to easing global financial conditions. 
16. In the relevant horizon for monetary policy, the scenario with the interest rate path from the Focus survey and a constant exchange rate results in inflation slightly below the 2020 target and around the 2021 target. Short-term projections were particularly affected by the effects of the proteins price shock, which occurred more intensely and earlier than anticipated. The projections consider a direct effect more concentrated in the last two months of this year, constituting the main factor that increased 2019 projections. Regarding administered prices, benign conditions for the occurrence of minor adjustments in electricity rates were mentioned. This process has been occurring in recent months and will probably continue over the next quarters. 
17. The Copom members assessed that the economic conditions with anchored inflation expectations, underlying inflation measures at comfortable levels, scenarios with projected inflation below or around target for the relevant horizon of monetary policy, and the high level of slack in the economy prescribe stimulative monetary policy, i.e., interest rates below the structural level. The Committee members expressed the view that the current level of ex-ante real interest rates provides stimulus to the economy. 
18. Taking into account the baseline scenario, the balance of risks, and the broad array of available information, the Copom unanimously decided to lower the Selic rate by 0.5 percentage point, to 4.50% p.a. The Committee judges that this decision reflects its baseline scenario for prospective inflation and the associated balance of risks, and it is consistent with convergence of inflation to its target over the relevant horizon for the conduct of monetary policy, which includes 2020 and, to a lesser extent, 2021. 
19. The Copom reiterates that economic conditions prescribe stimulative monetary policy, i.e., interest rates below the structural level. 
20. The Copom sees progress in the process of reforms and necessary adjustments in the Brazilian economy. The Committee emphasizes that persevering in this process is essential to allow for the consolidation of the reduction of the structural interest rate and for a sustainable economic recovery. The Committee stresses that the perception of the continuation of the reform agenda affects current expectations and macroeconomic projections. 
21. The Copom judges that the current stage of the business cycle recommends caution in the conduct of monetary policy. The Copom emphasizes that its next steps will continue to depend on the evolution of economic activity, the balance of risks, and inflation projections and expectations.