1. Consumer price inflation slowed in March, although by less than expected by the estimates of both the Central Bank and market participants. Monthly inflation remains relatively high. Despite the deceleration in the prices of agricultural products, wholesale inflation increased due to the behavior of industrial goods prices.
2. The IPCA increased 1.23% in March, as compared to 1.57% in the previous month, accumulating 5.13% in the first quarter of 2003, and 16.57% in 12 months. The deceleration in the monthly rate of IPCA inflation was due to fewer readjustments in urban transportation fares, to the dissipation of the impact of the seasonal readjustments of school fees, to the slight fall of gasoline prices, and to lower inflation in the price of alcohol-based motor fuel, items that have put pressure on the index in February.
3. Regulated prices increased 1.07% in March, as compared to 2.71% in February. Free market prices increased 1.29% in March as compared to 1.11% in the previous month, mainly due to the acceleration of price increases for food, particularly perishable food, medicines, cleaning and personal hygiene products, and clothing.
4. The IGP-DI increased 1.66% in March, as compared to 1.59% in February, accumulating 5.52% in the quarter, and 32.75% in 12 months. The upward pressure on the IGP-DI resulted from the behavior of wholesale prices, which increased 1.93% as compared to 1.71% in February. The IPC-Br increased 1.06%, as compared to 1.37% in the previous month, while the INCC remained stable.
5. The agricultural component of the IPA increased 0.32%, pressured by prices of legumes and fruit, as a result of adverse weather conditions. Other important items such as cereals and grains, vegetable oils, , and export crops registered nominal price decreases, due to the exchange rate appreciation and the behavior of international prices. The industrial component of the IPA increased 2.56% as compared to 1.91% in February, reflecting increases in the prices of chemicals (fuel and plastic raw materials), metal products (iron, steel and by-products), pharmaceutical products (medicines and hygiene), and plastic (resins).
6. Core IPCA inflation calculated by excluding household food items and regulated prices reached 1.13% in March, as compared to 1.00% in February, breaking the deceleration observed since December. The accumulated change in 12 months reached 10.2%, as compared to 9.4% in February.
7. Core IPCA inflation calculated under the trimmed-mean method registered a 1.23% increase in March, as compared to 0.93% in the previous month. In the last 12 months, trimmed-mean core inflation accumulated a 10.8% increase, as compared to 10.1% in February. 8. Core IPC-BR inflation calculated under the symmetric trimmed-mean method increased 1.07% in March, as compared to 0.93% in the previous month, slightly above the 1.06% increase in the headline index for the month. In 12 months, core IPC-Br inflation accumulated a 10.6%increase, as compared to 9.94% in February.
9. In April, inflation may continue its recent declining trend, reflecting the dissipation of the effects of the recent increase in the prices of medicines, the reduction of agricultural prices and the recent behavior of the exchange rate, whose influence can be seen mainly in wholesale food prices. However, the drop in inflation will be attenuated by new readjustments of regulated prices, particularly household electricity tariffs, with increases in Belo Horizonte, Fortaleza, Salvador, Recife, and Porto Alegre.
10. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations assumes the following hypotheses: a. Estimated price adjustments for gasoline and bottled gas for 2003 have fallen since the last Copom meeting to 8.4% from 12.4% and to 1.6% from 4.2%, respectively. These projections incorporate the adjustments of the first months of the year and price reduction from May onward. b. With respect to household electricity tariffs, estimated readjustments have decreased by 3 p.p. to 24.5%. This decrease is the result of the appreciation of the real observed since the last Copom meeting. c. Regulated prices, which had a 28.6% weight in the March IPCA, are forecast to increase 15.3% in 2003. The appreciation of the real, lower adjustments for electricity and the decrease in the price of oil by-products were mostly responsible for the fall of 1.5 p.p. from the March projections for regulated prices. d. For 2004, the estimated readjustment for the set of regulated prices is 8.5%, a 0.5 p.p. fall compared to the projections at the last meeting. This result is a consequence of the decrease in the expectation of 2004 IGP-M. e. The projection for the 6-month spread over the Selic rate, following the specification of the VAR model using the Selic and swap rates in levels, is at 60 b.p. in the 3Q03, gradually rising until the end of 2004.
11. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the public sector will accomplish primary surplus target for this year and the following two years (4.25% of the GDP). The other related assumptions established in the March Copom meeting were maintained. 
12. Considering the baseline scenario hypotheses, including a steady interest rate at 26.5% p.a. and the exchange rate at the level prevailing on the eve of the Copom meeting, inflation is projected above the adjusted target of 8.5% for 2003.
13. Inflation remains on a downward trend. However, recent inflation results were above Copom projections and the medians of both market expectations and Top 5 (best forecasters) market expectations. The current results indicate a higher degree of inflation persistence, which is key for the disinflation outlook. 
14. In March, free market prices increased as a result of price increases in items that are sensitive to past exchange rate changes, such as medicines and cleaning and hygiene products, as well as increases in perishable food prices. With the exception of ‘Services’ prices, which have a 20.6% weight in the index, all the other sub-groups in the IPCA posted relatively high levels of inflation. As a result, the monthly increase of core inflation was above 1%. 
15. The slower decline in inflation indicates a higher degree of inertia in the formation of prices in the economy, although this may be a temporary phenomenon. The degree of inflation inertia depends directly on the link between price and wage readjustments. There is a risk of future price and wage readjustments being based on accumulated inflation instead of on future inflation.
16. Other factors that impact consumer price inflation, such as the exchange rate and economic activity, have been contributing to a more rapid convergence of inflation to its targets.
17. Recent figures on economic activity, when adjusted for the distortions provoked by the timing of the Carnival holiday this year, show signs of a downturn in the first quarter of 2003. This trend has materialized despite the increase of exports and domestic production of import-substituting goods. The decline in activity can be attributed to the decrease in real wages and tightening of credit conditions for consumers. Leading indicators for March suggest that the level of activity will remain weak.
18. The nominal exchange rate appreciated around 12% in the period following the last Copom meeting as a result of improvement in the BoP. The trade surplus increased, and the current account registered a surplus in 1Q03, indicating a deepening of the external adjustment of the Brazilian economy. The sustainability of this trend, however, is dependent on a reduction of inflation, which is needed in order to preserve the change in relative prices that has occurred in the last year.
19. External funding conditions have improved. Brazil risk measured by the Embi+ has decreased more than 200 b.p. since the last Copom meeting, in line with the onshore yield curve. External funding from private sources has resumed, and March rollover rates for notes and commercial paper reached 82%, as compared to 65% in the same period of 2002. It is important, however, to achieve an improvement in the quality of external funding, with longer tenors and lower costs. Indeed, in April, new issues were announced with a slight lengthening of tenors. Demand for domestic securities has also increased, allowing the Treasury to issue LTNs and LFTs with longer maturities
20. These factors contributed to an improvement in the inflation outlook, even taking into consideration the failure of inflation to fall more sharply in recent months. As a result, the Copom decided to maintain the target for the Selic rate at 26.5%. 
21. The Copom also decided to withdraw the upward bias, which allowed the Governor to increase the Selic rate anytime between regular Copom meetings. Although there are doubts about the speed of the decline in inflation and questions regarding the extent to which the increase in inflation inertia is temporary or permanent, they will not be clarified between the monthly meetings, but over the longer term.
22. At the closing of the meeting, it was announced that the Committee would meet again on May 20, for technical presentations and on the following day, in order to discuss the monetary policy decision, as established in the Communiqué 10,187, of October 2, 2002.