1. In April, most measures of inflation registered their smallest monthly increases since September of 2002. This development was most pronounced in wholesale price indices, mainly due to the effects of the recent exchange rate appreciation and seasonal contribution of agricultural goods prices. The decline in consumer price inflation was smaller, reflecting a modest deceleration in market price inflation and increases in regulated prices. 
2. The IPCA increased 0.97% in April, in comparison to 1.23% in the previous month, accumulating 6.15% in the first four months of 2003 and 16.77% in 12 months. The IGP-DI increased 0.41% in April, compared to 1.66% in March. The IPA-DI rose by 0.07% in April, in comparison to 1.93% in the previous month. The 12-month increase of the IGP-DI and IPA-DI fell after having increased for eleven consecutive months, totaling 32.37% and 42.65%, respectively. 
3. The deceleration of IPCA inflation resulted exclusively from the evolution of market prices, which increased 0.87% in April, compared to 1.29% in March. Among market prices, the main contribution to the slowdown came from food prices, thanks particularly to the normalization of the supply of perishable foods, reflecting more favorable weather conditions. As a consequence, prices of perishable food increased 1.78% in April, in comparison to 7.17% in March. Among tradable goods apart from food items, the smaller increase of the IPCA was due to the behavior of the prices of medicines, household goods and cleaning and personal hygiene products, which increased less than in the previous month. However, due to seasonal effects, clothing items posted a higher increase in April (1.03%) than in March (0.6%). 
4. Regulated prices increased 1.21% in April, up from 1.08% in March, contributing 0.35 p.p. to the IPCA result in the month. An increase in the price of electricity made the largest single contribution to the increase in the IPCA (0.13 p.p), reflecting tariff hikes in six metropolitan regions. Additionally, urban bus tariffs, bottled cooking gas (whose price remained stable at the refinery level), water and sewage tariffs and the price of airplane tickets all registered increases. 
5. Regarding the evolution of wholesale prices, one should highlight the effects of the exchange rate appreciation and the normalization of the supply of perishable foods. The agricultural component of the IPA decreased 0.99% in April, after a 0.3% increase in March, mainly due to declines in the prices of fruits and legumes (7.05%) and export crops (5.49%). The industrial component of the IPA increased 0.48%, compared to 2.56% in March, reflecting the deceleration of price increases in most of the industrial sectors. 
6. Core IPCA inflation calculated by excluding household food items and regulated prices was 0.81% in April, compared to 1.13% in March, but still above the levels observed in the first three quarters of 2002. The accumulated change in 12 months was 10.53%. 
7. Core IPCA inflation calculated under the trimmed-mean method registered a 1.10% increase in April, higher than the headline index. In the last 12 months, trimmed-mean core inflation accumulated an increase of 11.43%, as compared to 10.8% in March. 
8. Core IPC-Br inflation calculated under the symmetric trimmed-mean method registered a 1.2% increase in April. In 12 months, core IPC-Br inflation accumulated a 11.37% increase. 
9. In May, the positive effects of the exchange rate appreciation on inflation are likely to increase, particularly on wholesale prices, as signaled by recent previews of the IGP-M. With respect to consumer prices, tradable goods will also benefit from the exchange rate appreciation, and in conjunction with the fall of perishable food and fuel prices will contribute to the downward trend of inflation. However, upward pressures from clothing prices and electricity tariffs (due to both increase of household electricity and implementation of public light tariffs) will prevent this effect from being more pronounced. 
10. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations assumes the following hypothesis: 
a. Estimated price adjustments for gasoline in 2003 are around 6%, including the reduction at the beginning of May. The projection for the readjustment of the price of bottled cooking gas for 2003 increased to 4.5%, due to the 4.13% increase in April. 
b. With respect to household electricity tariffs, estimated readjustments decreased again as a result of the exchange rate appreciation, reaching 23.7% for 2003. This rate could be lower, were it not for the charges of public lighting in several capitals, including Curitiba, São Paulo, Fortaleza, Recife, Belo Horizonte, Goiânia and some municipalities of greater Rio de Janeiro. 
c. Regulated prices, which had a 28.6% weight in the April IPCA, are forecast to increase 14.9% in 2003. Despite the increase of in the projection for bottled cooking gas, the decrease of gasoline prices, the exchange rate appreciation and the consequent reassessment of electricity price readjustment resulted in a 0.4 p.p. fall from the April projections for regulated prices. 
d. The projection for the 6-month spread over the Selic rate, following the specification of the VAR model using the Selic and swap rates on the eve of the Copom meeting was 80 b.p. for 4Q03, gradually rising to 150 b.p. at the end of 2004. 
11. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the public sector will accomplish the primary surplus target for this year and the following two years (4.25% of the GDP). The other related assumptions established in the April Copom meeting were maintained. 
12. Considering the baseline scenario hypotheses, including a steady interest rate at 26.5% p.a. and the exchange rate at the level prevailing on the eve of the Copom meeting, inflation is projected above the adjusted target of 8.5% for 2003. 
13. Inflation remains on a downward trend. Wholesale price inflation has been decreasing more than consumer price inflation. There is evidence that the dynamics of the two groups of prices have been different. At the wholesale level, the exchange rate appreciation and the normalization of the supply of perishable food have been the main factors underlying the decrease in inflation. 
14. However, the deceleration of consumer price inflation has not been as significant. Regulated prices increased by 0.34 p.p. more than market prices, due to items such as water and sewage, bottled cooking gas, electricity, urban bus fares, airplane tickets, motor oil and cellular phones. Market price inflation declined, largely due to smaller price increases in services and items linked to the exchange rate. 
15. GDP may close the first quarter of 2003 roughly stable in comparison to the previous quarter. On the one hand, manufacturing output fell. On the other hand, the mineral extraction industry, the agricultural sector and the tradable goods sector registered positive performance. 
16. The resistance to a more rapid decline in consumer price inflation points to the existence of increased inflation persistence in the economy. The prices of important groups in the consumption basket have increased significantly, although at a decelerating rate, including beverages, canned products, cleaning and personal hygiene products and furniture and utensils. Consequently, core inflation still remains at a high level. 
17. This persistence is due to wage and price readjustments that have occurred since the beginning of the year and that have been based on the high inflation rate accumulated in the last twelve months, rather than assessments of future inflation. Also, businesses have made an effort to regain profit margins in a scenario of falling aggregated demand. This behavior resulted in a significant decrease in sales. Retail sales decreased 6% in the first quarter of the year compared to the same period of the previous year. 
18. The Copom believes that monetary policy should not ratify price and wage readjustments based on past inflation, due to the risk of perpetuating higher inflation. 
19. There are initial signs that monetary policy is curbing inflation. The Copom as well as market participants expect inflation to maintain a declining trend towards its target. These favorable expectations regarding inflation are based on the following assumptions: (i) inflation persistence is temporary, (ii) the recent exchange rate appreciation positively affects price dynamics (in the same way that the exchange rate depreciation affected inflation). 
20. Since inflation remains relatively high, it is still premature to conclude that inflation persistence is definitively decreasing and that the effect of the exchange rate appreciation on prices is significant. Thus, the Copom concludes that the decrease of inflation depends on the maintenance of its current effort. 
21. As a result, the Copom decided, unanimously, to maintain the target for the Over-Selic rate at 26.5% p.a. 
22. At the closing of the meeting, it was announced that the Copom would meet again on June 17, for technical presentations and on the following day, in order to discuss the monetary policy decision, as established in the Communiqué 10,187, of October 2, 2002.