1. In May, most measures of inflation continued their downward trend. Wholesale prices fell, mainly due to the effects of the recent exchange rate appreciation, especially on the prices of tradable goods. Consumer prices on average are also decelerating, although at a slower rate than at the wholesale level, reflecting pressures on specific items. 
2. The IPCA increased 0.61% in May, in comparison to 0.97% in the previous month, accumulating 6.80% in 2003 and 17.24% in 12 months. The IGP-DI decreased 0.67% in May, compared to a 0.41% increase in April. The IPA-DI fell by 1.68% in May, in comparison to 0.07% in the previous month. The 12-month IGP-DI and IPA-DI fell for the second consecutive month, totaling 30.05% and 38.5%, respectively in comparison to 32.37% and 42.65% in April. 
3. Regarding the evolution of the IPCA, the average increase of 6.45% in electricity due to both increases in household electricity tariffs and public lighting taxes in some capitals made the largest single contribution (0.27 p.p.) to the increase of the IPCA in May. The 14.46% increase in the price of rice also contributed significantly to IPCA inflation in May. 
4. Inflation of both market and regulated prices in the IPCA slowed in May. The increase in market prices fell to 0.53% in May from 0.87% in April due to the deceleration of inflation in non-tradable goods prices, which remained stable – mainly due to declines in the prices of perishable foods and a 0.3% increase in service prices. The slowdown of inflation in tradable goods prices was less intense, with these prices rising 0.95% in May compared to 1.11% in April, with continuing upward pressures from the prices of rice, milk and dairy products and clothing. Among tradable goods, there was a deceleration in the price increases of medicine, cleaning and personal hygiene products, furniture and utensils and electronics. 
5. Regulated prices increased 0.81% in May, compared to 1.21% in April, contributing 0.23 p.p. to the increase of the IPCA. In addition to electricity tariff hikes in 9 regions, urban bus and water and sewage tariffs contributed 0.08 p.p. and 0.03 p.p., respectively, to the increase in the May IPCA. Gasoline prices at gas stations decreased 3.38% due to a 6.5% decline in refinery prices that began on April 30th. The price of alcohol-based auto fuel decreased 3.88% in May. Together gasoline and alcohol-based fuel contributed –0.20 p.p. to the change in the IPCA last month. 
6. It is important to highlight that even after the most recent reductions in petroleum products, domestic prices are still higher than international prices. Considering the international dollar prices of these products and the exchange rate on June 15th, these margins stood at 8.5% for gasoline prices and bottled gas, 24% for diesel fuel and 13.8% for jet fuel. 
7. Regarding the evolution of wholesale prices, one should highlight the effects of the exchange rate appreciation on both agricultural and industrial prices. Following a 0.99% decrease in April, the agricultural component of the IPA fell a further 3.08% in May. The industrial component of the IPA decreased 1.15% in May, compared to a 0.48% increase in the previous month. However, the behavior of industrial prices at the wholesale level was not uniform, with a deceleration of price increases in some sectors, outright price declines in others - mainly chemicals, paper and cardboard and power lines - and higher pressures in sectors such as machinery, transportation, fabric, clothes and footwear, beverages and food products. 
8. Core IPCA inflation calculated by excluding household food items and regulated prices was 0.56% in May, compared to 0.81% in April. The accumulated change in 12 months was 10.58%. 
9. Core IPCA inflation calculated under the trimmed-mean method registered 1% in May, compared to 1.1% in April. In the last 12 months, trimmed-mean core inflation accumulated an increase of 11.98%. It is worth mentioning that because of the methodology used in this measure - in particular, smoothing the changes of certain items - the results are influenced by the higher inflation resulting from the exchange rate depreciation in the second half of 2002. 
10. Core IPC-BR inflation calculated under the symmetric trimmed-mean method registered a 1.05% increase in May. In 12 months, core IPC-BR inflation accumulated a 12.14% increase. Core measures of inflation with this index are also being influenced by the exchange rate shock last year. 
11. In June, wholesale prices will continue to reflect the exchange rate appreciation, registering additional declines as already signaled in the partial results for June inflation. Consumer price indices will come under some upward pressure from the prices of rice, milk and dairy products and clothing prices. However, this pressure will be lower than observed in May. Also, expected declines in the prices of fresh food, beef and fuel will facilitate a further deceleration of monthly inflation. 
12. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations assumes the following hypotheses. 
a. The price of gasoline is estimated to increase 5.3% in 2003, compared to 6% at the last Copom meeting. Re-estimates of the price adjustments for bottled cooking gas for 2003 resulted in a 2.1 p.p. fall compared to last month, with cooking gas now forecasted to increase 2.4% in 2003. These forecasts include price readjustments that have occurred up to the current date. 
b. As a result of the exchange rate appreciation and the new estimate for the General Price Indices, the readjustments of electricity and telephones tariffs are estimated at 23% and 19%, respectively, including the readjustments that have occurred up to the current date. 
c. Regulated prices, which had a 28.65% weight in the May IPCA, are forecast to increase 14.1% in 2003. The exchange rate appreciation and the decrease in the estimate of electricity and telephone price readjustments resulted in a 0.8 p.p. fall from the May projections. Regulated prices are forecast to increase 8.9% in 2004. 
d. The projection for the 6-month spread over the Selic rate, following the specification of the VAR model using the Selic and swap rates on the eve of the Copom meeting, was -100 b.p. for 3Q03, gradually rising to 50 b.p. at the end of 2004. 
13. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the public sector will accomplish the primary surplus target for this year and the following two years (4.25% of the GDP). The other related assumptions established in the May Copom meeting were maintained. 
14. Considering the baseline scenario hypotheses, including maintenance of the Selic interest rate at 26.5% p.a. and the exchange rate at the level prevailing on the eve of the Copom meeting, inflation is projected above the adjusted target of 8.5% for 2003 and below the target of 5.5% for 2004. 
15. Monthly Inflation has been falling this year. There are three basic factors explaining this recent behavior. First, the high inflation rates observed at the beginning of the year resulted from the delayed effects on prices of the strong exchange rate depreciation observed last year and the increase of inflation persistence, with more agents adjusting prices and wages based on past inflation. Second, the recent exchange rate appreciation has reduced pressures on companies’ costs and wholesale prices. Although there is still some resistance among the retail prices of tradable goods to pass-through from the recent exchange rate appreciation, consumer prices have tended to stabilize without additional readjustment pressures. Third, monetary policy has been successful in reducing inflation expectations and inflation pressures by controlling aggregate demand. 
16. Inflation persistence contributed to the continuation of high inflation in the initial months of the year. Higher inflation persistence was caused by an increase in the practice of backward-looking prices readjustment, and a corresponding decline in price readjustments based on future inflation. This behavior, aimed at improving profit margins in the initial months of the year, led to a significant decrease in sales in an environment of lower demand and a monetary policy committed to preventing price readjustments from perpetuating high inflation. 
17. As a consequence of higher inflation persistence, the velocity of the fall of monthly inflation has been lower than expected since inflation peaked at 3% in November. IPCA inflation only dropped below 1% in April, falling again in May to 0.61%. Similar behavior has been observed when analyzing the trend of market prices. The inflation of these items has decreased gradually, to 0.5% in May from 2.5% in November. 
18. On the other hand, the exchange rate appreciation has contributed to a reduction of cost pressures on inflation. The maintenance of appropriate fiscal and monetary policies, as well as the recent increase in international liquidity, contributed to the continuation of the exchange rate appreciation. The rollover rates for private securities and direct loans continue to increase. Country risk, measured by the Embi+, continued its decline, falling to 696 b.p. on the eve of the June Copom meeting from 833 b.p. on the eve of the May Copom meeting, demonstrating the recovery of international confidence in the conduct of economic policy in Brazil. 
19. Economic activity continues to decelerate. The intensity and duration of this deceleration are similar to those observed in other recent periods of Brazilian history. However, due to the change in relative prices, especially regarding the prices of tradable goods compared to the prices of non-tradables, the deceleration of activity is not uniform. The sectors related to exports, including agribusiness, and the mineral extraction industry are expanding. On the other hand, the durable goods sector for internal consumers, which depends on domestic credit conditions, is the most depressed compared to the same month of last year. 
20. According to the factors explained above, monthly inflation remains on a downward trend. The decrease of 0.4 p.p. in IPCA inflation in May was strongly influenced by the 0.6 p.p. reduction in non-tradable goods prices, which resulted mainly from the normalization of the supply of perishable foods. Nevertheless, other groups also showed a reduction of inflation pressures. The decrease of the prices of gasoline and alcohol-based auto fuel was the main factor contributing to the reduction in regulated price inflation. Excluding the increases in electricity, urban bus, water and sewage tariffs, the IPCA would have increased by 0.23% instead of the 0.61% observed in May. The decline of consumer price inflation was followed by deflation in wholesale prices, both agricultural and industrial. 
21. Also in May, fewer prices in the IPCA were adjusted upward: 66.0% compared to 75.8% in April. This value is much lower than the maximum value of the series since 1995, observed in January, when the prices of 85.9% of the items in the IPCA increased. 
22. Core inflation is also declining. Free prices (which is equivalent to a core inflation calculated by excluding regulated prices) increased 0.53% in May, compared to 0.87% in April, pointing to annualized inflation of 6.9%. The behavior of core inflation calculated by excluding regulated prices and household food items was similar, decreasing to 0.56% in May from 0.81% in April. 
23. Trimmed-mean core inflation increased 1%, compared to 1.1% in April. Under this methodology, the readjustments of some items, which are concentrated in a few short periods of the year, are smoothed to avoid their exclusion from the core. When inflationary shocks occur, the core tends to be affected by past pressures and shows some resistance to falling. Excluding the effects produced by this smoothing process, the downward trend of core inflation is clear, falling from 0.86% in April to 0.64% in May. Another way to measure trimmed-mean core inflation, which avoids the influence of exchange rate shocks, is to substitute the current period’s smoothed values with the corresponding values observed in the past 12 months. Based on this criterion, the core would be 0.88% and 0.79% in April and May respectively. 
24. Both the Central Bank’s inflation forecasts and market inflation expectations have been converging to the inflation targets. The Central Bank’s inflation forecasts for 2003 point to inflation above the adjusted target of 8.5%. Nonetheless, inflation in the second quarter of the year registered results compatible with those presented in the Open Letter sent by the Central Bank’s Governor to the Ministry of Finance on January 21. 
25. Market inflation expectations surveyed by Gerin have also been converging to the 12-month ahead inflation targets. The most recent data regarding inflation expectations for the next 12 months is 7.4%, close to the 12-month ahead target path in May (7.2%). 
26. In June 2003, the 12 month-ahead inflation consistent with the 2003 and 2004 targets corresponds to 7%. The Copom inflation forecast for the same period is below this figure. 
27. However, there are still risks to setting inflation on a path consistent with the target trajectory, especially with respect to the speed of disinflation. The Copom has continuously evaluated the degree of inflation persistence in recent months. One of the analytic methods consists of comparing the models that are currently used with other specifications that adopt a higher degree of persistence. It was observed that the current models forecasted May inflation with more accuracy, which may be the first hint that the degree of inflation persistence is returning to the historical average. The asymmetrical impact on prices of the exchange rate’s appreciation and depreciation was analyzed in the same way. The conclusion was that the models that incorporate less impact due to exchange rate appreciations, compared to exchange rate depreciations, signaled market price inflation above the one that was effective in May. 
28. Due to the recent slowdown in inflation, the Copom believes that the stance of monetary policy should ensure that the recent disinflation trend is sustained. 