1. The IPCA increased 0.34% in August, after an increase of 0.20% in the previous month, accumulating increases of 7.22% and 15.07% in 2003 and in 12 months, respectively. The IGP-DI increased 0.62% in August, compared to a decrease of 0.20% in July, reflecting an increase in the IPA-DI (+0.70% in August compared to -0.59% in July) and a deceleration of the IPC-BR (to 0.13% from 0.34%). The 12-month changes of the IGP-DI and IPA-DI decreased for the fifth consecutive month in August, reaching 22.03% and 25.85% respectively.
2. Regulated prices rose 0.85% in August, contributing 0.24 p.p. to the overall result of the IPCA, while free prices rose 0.14%, contributing 0.1 p.p. Among regulated prices, notable increases included fixed telephone and electricity tariffs, water and sewage tariffs, and the price of gasoline, which had been falling for five consecutive months. With respect to free prices, the most significant impacts came from increases in the prices of domestic services and meat. Food prices decreased 0.27% in August, less sharply than the 0.67% decline in the previous month.
3. Both agricultural and industrial wholesale prices rose in August. Agricultural prices increased 1.77%, reversing the declines observed in the previous four months, as a result of the beginning of an inter-harvest period and increases in the international prices of some commodities. The most significant pressures came from the prices of meat (cattle, pork and poultry) and meat-related products, coffee, manioc and rice. Industrial prices increased 0.29%, after falling in the previous three months, with notable increases in common steel plates, fuel oil, sulfur, sugar, roasted and ground coffee, and copper wires.
4. Core IPCA inflation calculated by excluding household food items and regulated prices increased 0.37% in August, repeating the change registered in July. The accumulated change in the last twelve months stood at 10.8%, decreasing for the second consecutive time.
5. Core IPCA inflation calculated under the trimmed-mean method (smoothed) reached 0.58% in August, compared to 0.65% in July. In the last twelve months, the accumulated change stood at 12.59%, decelerating for the first time this year. Inflation calculated without the smoothing procedure for pre-selected items resulted in rates of 0.35% and 11.47% in the month and in twelve months, respectively.
6. Core IPC-BR inflation calculated under the symmetric trimmed-mean method was 0.45% in August, accumulating an increase of 12.43% in the twelve months ending in August. 
7. In September, consumer price indices will post larger increases than in August, mainly reflecting pressures on regulated and food prices. Among regulated prices, water and sewage tariffs in São Paulo, electricity in Brasília and Goiânia and the second readjustment of urban transportation in Salvador should be highlighted, along with other items with countrywide impacts such as alcohol, gasoline and fixed telephone tariffs. Free prices will increase as a result of increases in food prices, which were seen in the wholesale indices in August.
8. It should be noted that the one-time price increases to be observed in the next few months, mainly due to regulated prices and seasonal pressures, do not represent any change in the process of disinflation that has been observed in recent months. This is highlighted by the continuing downward trend of core inflation.
9. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations assumes the following hypotheses: 
a. The projections for the readjustment of gasoline prices in the remainder of 2003 were revised. The new projection for this year’s readjustment stands at 2.2%, 2.7 p.p. lower than in August. This decrease results mainly from the exchange rate appreciation in the last month and the fall of international oil prices. The projections for bottled cooking gas for the full year decreased to 5.4% from 5.8%, as the actual increase in this price in August was slightly lower than expected. However, the projections for the remainder of the year were not changed,
b. The projection for the readjustment of electricity tariffs decreased to 20.8% from 22.3%. The projection for the readjustment of telephone tariffs in 2003 increased 0.2p.p. to 25.7%. It should be noted that the dates for the readjustments were revised as a result of a judicial injunction against the readjustment of these tariffs according to the annual change of the IGP-DI. The Copom utilized the hypothesis that differences between the increases authorized by Anatel and the actual readjustment to date will be compensated in the remainder of the year,
c. The projected increase of 14.0% for regulated prices, which had a 28.6% weight in the August IPCA, was maintained,
d. For 2004, it is assumed that the readjustment of regulated prices will follow the endogenous determination model of regulated prices. Under this methodology, which considers the change in the exchange rate, free price inflation and the change in the IGPDI, as well as seasonal factors, the projection for the readjustment of regulated prices in 2004 was reduced by 0.6 p.p., to 8.3%,
e. The projection for the 6-month spread over the Selic rate, following the specification of the VAR model using the Selic and the swap rate on the eve of the Copom meeting, was –275 b.p. for the fourth quarter of 2003, gradually rising to 50 b.p. at the end of 2004.
10. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the primary surplus target of 4.25% of GDP for this year and the following two years will be accomplished. The other related assumptions established in the August meeting were maintained.
11. Considering the baseline scenario hypotheses, including the maintenance of the Selic interest rate at 22.0% p.a. and the exchange rate at the level prevailing on the eve of the Copom meeting (R$2.90), inflation is projected above the adjusted target of 8.5% for 2003 and below the target of 5.5% for 2004.
12. The behavior of inflation in August confirmed the positive results of June and July. The maintenance of exchange rate stability and inflation expectations in line with the trajectory of the inflation targets indicate that the cycle of readjustment of relative prices that the Brazilian economy had experienced since 2002 has reached its end.
13. August IPCA inflation reached 0.34%, in line with projections presented at the August Copom meeting. The increase of 0.14 p.p. compared to July was due to increases in regulated prices and seasonally-sensitive items. Among these prices, notable increases included the prices of meat, due to the inter-harvest period, and the price of domestic services, which was captured in the August IPCA for methodological reasons even though changes typically occur mainly in April and May. It is important to highlight that the proportion of items with positive readjustments in the monthly IPCA has been falling since March, and stood at 56.4% in August, the lowest figure since January 2001.
14. The behavior of core inflation signals a downward trend in inflation. Core IPCA inflation calculated under the trimmed-mean method with smoothing and excluding regulated prices fell for the fifth consecutive month, and core inflation calculated under the trimmed-mean method without smoothing fell in August, after relative stability in June and July. Core inflation excluding regulated prices and household food items increased 0.37%, the same increase observed in July. Other core inflation measures, such as the IPC-BR, also point out to a downward trend for inflation. 
15. After three consecutive months of deflation, wholesale prices increased in August, reflecting the beginning of an inter-harvest period and the end of the passthrough of the exchange rate appreciation that had been occurring since March. In August, the wholesale price index for agricultural products increased 1.8% while the wholesale index for industrial products rose 0.3%. Agricultural wholesale prices will continue to put upward pressure on retail prices in the next few months. As is typical at the end of the year, these increases are expected to reverse as the inter4 harvest period ends. However, the reversal may be partial, since there may be a change of price level for some items. This seems to be the case for soybean products, as soy prices increased recently in the international market. 
16. As a consequence of the inter-harvest period and expected readjustments for regulated prices, inflation is expected to increase slightly in the upcoming months. In the medium-run, however, the Copom judges that inflation will return to the moderate levels observed recently.
17. The economy has started to show signs of a recovery from the deceleration observed in the first half of the year. As is usual in the early stages of a recovery, indicators of economic activity are giving contradictory signals. Hours worked, industrial production and sales, and electricity consumption in São Paulo all increased in August compared to July (s.a. data). Retail sales and employment were stable in June and July, while installed capacity utilization, and purchase of capital goods and civil construction inputs decreased.
18. The Copom estimates that activity will be recovering from the second half of this year onward. The easing of monetary policy, inititiated in June and intensified in subsequent months, the increase in the supply of credit, and the increase in real incomes due to the decrease in inflation will allow consumption to increase progressively. Net exports, continue to provide support to aggregate demand, although at a lower relative magnitude. As a result of the level of idle capacity in the economy, a recovery of investment may take some months to occur. Generally speaking, even if investment recovers after consumption, the Copom maintains its judgement from the August meeting that the the recovery of the economy will be balanced, and will occur at a speed that keeps demand growth in line with the growth of aggregate supply.
19. To maintain price stability in a longer horizon, the growth of aggregate demand must continue to be compatible with increases in aggregate supply. The decrease of investment in recent years – sharpened in the second quarter of 2003 - has had a negative effect on the growth of productive capacity. On the other hand, the maintenance of monetary and fiscal policies consistent with macroeconomic equilibrium and the approval of reforms now in the Congress will have positive impacts on the growth of potential GDP. The Copom will monitor the evolution of aggregate demand, in order to ensure that the growth of installed capacity utilization does not outstrip the completion of new investments.
20. The external scenario improved significantly since the August Copom meeting. The Real was less volatile and appreciated moderately against the US dollar, with the exchange rate falling from a plateau of R$3.00 to a level around R$2.90. Country risk measured by the Embi+ fell from 730 b.p. to 650 b.p. The Brazilian external accounts continued to post positive results, with increasing surpluses in the trade balance due to export growth, enough to produce small surpluses in the current account. FDI recovered in July and August, and sovereign and private securities were placed in the international market between August and September. As a consequence of the stability of the real and the favorable behavior of the external accounts, there is no expectation of new inflationary pressures coming from the exchange rate.
21. The BCB’s inflation forecasts, assuming the maintenance of the Selic interest rate at 22.0% p.a. and the exchange rate at R$2.90/US$, point to inflation above the adjusted target of 8.5% for 2003. A small reduction of the projection for this year was due to the fall of market expectations for inflation, exchange rate appreciation and the 2Q2003 GDP released by IBGE, which was lower than expected and incorporated into the projections for the year. The trajectory of inflation remains compatible with the path presented in the Open Letter sent by the BCB Governor to the Ministry of Finance on January 21st, 2003.
22. The BCB’s inflation forecasts for the next 12 months and for 2004 were reduced slightly, due to the lower than expected GDP results and the 0.4 p.p. reduction in the projection for regulated price inflation in 2004. The new projections, assuming the maintenance of the Selic interest rate at 22.0% p.a. and the exchange rate at R$2.90/US$, remain below the trend of the inflation targets.
23. During the last few months, the convergence of inflation expectations to the trajectory of the inflation targets played a key role in generating positive inflation results. Monetary policy should guide the basic interest rate in order to ensure that expectations are consistent with the convergence of inflation to the targets. The median of market inflation expectations has been roughly stable since the August Copom meeting. For inflation in 2003, market expectations decreased to 9.6% from 9.7%. Regarding expectations for inflation in the next twelve months, there was a slight increase to 6.5% from 6.4%. For 2004, market expectations were stable at 6.2%. 24. The Copom evaluates the risks in the projections for the inflation trajectory on an ongoing basis. Some of these risks have become less significant, such as the doubts regarding the degree of inertia after the inflationary peak in the last quarter of 2002. During the last quarter of the year, the Copom will be observing wage readjustments that will occur under collective bargaining agreements. It will be important to differentiate two types of readjustments: i) those in sectors with relative price gains since last year, notably the sector of tradables, which has benefited from the exchange rate depreciation, and ii) those based on past inflation, rather than its projected or current performance for the sector.
25. As the disinflation process continues, other risks become more important. With consecutive reductions in the over-Selic rate since June, the real interest rate has come closer to the mediumrun level consistent with sustainable growth and price stability. As the basic interest rate approaches this level, the greater the relative importance of risks associated with the uncertainties of the monetary policy transmission mechanism, including the lags and magnitudes of the impact of changes in the over-Selic rate on the inflation. With this progressive change in the relative importance of risks, gradualism in the conduct of monetary policy becomes increasingly important. 
26. With the projection of inflation for the next twelve months and for 2004 below the target, market expectations stable and consistent with the targeted path, and the exchange rate and external accounts not presenting a source of inflationary pressure in the short-run, the Copom believes it is appropriate to continue the process of monetary policy easing, and decided unanimously to fix the Over-Selic rate target at 20% p.a.
