1. The main price indices showed higher rates of inflation in September, reflecting pressures on food prices, mainly caused by the effects of the inter-harvest period, and readjustments in regulated prices.
2. The IPCA rose by 0.78% in September, after an increase of 0.34% in the previous month, accumulating increases of 8.05% and 15.14% in 2003 and in 12 months, respectively. The IGP-DI rose by 1.05% in September, after an increase of 0.62% in August, driven by an increase of 1.29% in the IPA-DI and 0.76% in the IPC-Br.
3. Regarding the IPCA, the increase of 1.44% in regulated prices contributed 0.41 p.p. to the overall result of the index, while the 0.51% increase in free prices contributed the remaining 0.37 p.p. Among regulated prices, notable increases included water and sewage tariffs, fixed telephone and electricity tariffs, and the price of auto fuel. With respect to free prices, the most significant impact came from the reversal in the behavior of food prices, with a 0.78% increase in September, after a decline of 0.27% in August. This reversal was due to the effects of the inter-harvest period, which caused increases in cattle and poultry prices. The notable performance of exports of these products in 2003 has contributed to sustain price increases. Still considering food products, the evolution of perishable food prices is also worth mentioning, as they remained stable in September (-0.07%), after accumulating a decrease of 16.5% in the June-August quarter.
4. Both agricultural and industrial wholesale prices registered higher rates of inflation in September. The agricultural IPA rose 3.55%, compared to a 1.77% increase in August, as a result of the price increases of meat (cattle, pork and poultry) and corn, due to the inter-harvest period, and soy, because of the evolution of international market prices. Industrial prices increased 0.40%, after a 0.29% increase in August, pressed by food products (mainly meat, fish and vegetable oil), agricultural machines and mining products.
5. Core IPCA inflation calculated by excluding household food items and regulated prices increased 0.37% in September, repeating the increase registered in the previous month. The accumulated change in the last twelve months stood at 10.54%.
6. Core IPCA inflation calculated under the trimmed-mean method (smoothed) increased 0.86% in September, compared to 0.58% in August. In the last twelve months, the accumulated change stood at 12.68%, still reflecting the effects of price increases at the end of 2002. Inflation calculated without the smoothing procedure for pre-selected items reached 0.60% and 11.51% in the month and in twelve months, respectively.
7. Core IPC-Br inflation calculated under the symmetric trimmed-mean method by Fundação Getúlio Vargas (FGV) rose to 0.67% in September, accumulating an increase of 12.43% in the twelve months ending in September.
8. In October, both consumer and wholesale price indices should register lower increases. In the wholesale index, a decrease in agricultural prices is expected, which has already been detected in the partial IGP-M results released by FGV. In the consumer index, the price deceleration will result mainly from lower readjustments of regulated items. Concerning free prices, pressures on food prices and clothing prices will likely persist, the former as a consequence of the inter-harvest period, and the latter due to seasonal factors.
9. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations assumes the following hypotheses:
a. The projection for the readjustment of gasoline prices in the remainder of 2003 was revised. The new projection for this year’s readjustment stands at 1.3%, 0.9 p.p. lower than the projection in the September Copom meeting. The projections for bottled cooking gas for the full year decreased to 5.3% from 5.4%,
b. The projection for the readjustment of electricity tariffs increased slightly to 21.2%, from 20.8% in the September meeting. On the other hand, the projection for the readjustment of telephone tariffs in 2003 was reduced by 0.2 p.p., going back to the 25.5% that had been projected in the July and August meetings,
c. The projection for regulated price inflation in 2003 (which had a 28.75% weight in the September IPCA), decreased by 0.1 p.p., to 13.9%, as a consequence of a fall in the projected readjustment for gasoline and fuel alcohol,
d. For regulated prices in 2004, the Copom started to work with specific projections for each item, substituting for the endogenous determination model used in the previous meetings. The new procedure is justified because, as 2004 approaches, it becomes possible to obtain more precise information about the readjustment of specific items for next year, notably for those items whose price readjustments are decided at the sub-national levels. Under this new methodology, the projection for regulated price inflation in 2004 rose by 0.6 p.p., reaching 8.9% in October, 
e. The projection for the 6-month spread over the Selic rate, following the specification of the VAR model using the Selic and the swap rates on the eve of the Copom meeting, was - 190 b.p. for the fourth quarter of 2003, gradually rising to 85 b.p. at the end of 2004.
10. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the primary surplus target of 4.25% of the GDP for this year and the following two years will be accomplished. The other related assumptions established in the September meeting were maintained.
11. Considering the baseline scenario hypotheses, including the maintenance of the Selic interest rate at 20.0% p.a. and the exchange rate at the level prevailing on the eve of the Copom meeting (R$2.85), inflation is projected above the adjusted target of 8.5% for 2003 and below the target of 5.5% for 2004.
12. September inflation measured by the IPCA was 0.78%, 0.44 p.p. above August inflation. The higher inflation in September was observed in all components of the IPCA: non-tradable goods, tradable goods and regulated prices, especially in the latter two categories. Inflation measured by other consumer price indices like the IPC-Fipe, the IPC-Br and the INPC also registered increases from August to September, as did inflation measured by the IGPs and IPAs. Regarding the IPAs, it is important to highlight the increase in inflation in the agricultural IPA to 3.6% in September, from 1.8% in August, mainly due to a stronger impact of the inter-harvest period and increases in the prices of some internationally traded commodities.
13. All core inflation measures also increased, except for the one calculated excluding regulated prices and household food items, which remained stable at 0.37% for the third consecutive month. After decreasing for 5 consecutive months, from August to September core inflation calculated under the trimmed-mean method with smoothing increased to 0.86%, from 0.58%, compared to an increase to 0.60% from 0.35% in core inflation calculated under the method without smoothing. Combining the smoothed trimmed-mean core of the IPCA with the corresponding core of the IPCA-15, a gradual elevation since August is evident and, with the October change in the IPCA-15, the series registered the fourth consecutive fortnightly increase. The performance of core IPC-Br inflation was similar, increasing in September after four consecutive months of decline. Finally, the ratio of IPCA items that had positive changes also rose, to 63.5%% in September from 56.4% in August, surpassing the proportion observed in the three previous months.
14. The Copom maintains the diagnosis presented in previous Minutes that the increase of inflation in September was temporary, explained by the inter-harvest period, by the increase of international prices of some commodities, such as soy, and by the readjustment of regulated prices. Considering that the inter-harvest effects have not yet ended, some pressures on inflation may continue in the short run. However, the Copom will continue to act in order to consolidate the current gains against inflation. For that purpose, in the coming months it will follow the evolution of inflation and of the different measures of core inflation, distinguishing between specific readjustments and persistent or generalized price increases.
15. The economic activity indicators released since the September meeting confirm the recovery scenario that the Copom was assuming in recent months. According to the IBGE, industrial production rose 1.5% between July and August (seasonally adjusted). This increase was broadbased, with a higher number of industrial sectors reversing the trend of declining production, which prevailed in the first half of the year. Other indicators also point to a recovery of production, including industrial sales, which according to the CNI increased 5% between July and August, and the consumption of energy, which rose 0.8% in the same period and 1.6% in September. The industrial business confidence index, released quarterly by the FGV, also increased in October, compared to July, and reached a level of 56, above the reference value of 50, indicating better future prospects.
16. The recovery of industrial production should be confirmed in the coming months, due to favorable prospects for real sales in the retail sector. Among the factors supporting this forecast are low banking delinquency rates, the increase in real wages and a likely increase in lending to businesses and consumers – in the latter case, with an additional impulse from recently created mechanisms for discounts of loan repayment installments from payrolls, which should allow not only an increase in credit, but also a decline in interest rates. In spite of the fact that real wages are still below the levels prevailing at the end of 2002, they have been gradually recovering in recent months. With the prospect of inflation stabilizing in line with the trajectory of the inflation targets, real earnings will tend to increase. Furthermore, despite the fact that the unemployment rate remains at around 13%, due to the continuous increase in the economically active population, total employment has increased in recent months. The slower recovery of consumption, in comparison to production, reinforces the perception that the recovery of economic activity will continue to be well-balanced, and it is important to note that installed capacity utilization remains low.
17. The external accounts maintained the positive performance observed so far this year. In September, the trade surplus reached US$ 2.7 billion, very close to the peak value registered in August. The trade balance accumulated up to September is US$ 17.8 billion, more than twice the result registered in the same period of 2002, and is due more to the increase of exports (21.3% in comparison to the same period of the previous year), than to the decline of imports (1.8%). It is important to highlight that the increase of exports in this period was mainly due to growth of export volumes, although it was also favored by higher export prices. Finally, the growth of exports was also explained by market diversification, including to China, and the recovery of traditional trade partners, as in the case of Argentina. As a consequence of the higher trade surpluses, the current account balance now shows a surplus in the year.
18. Since the September Copom meeting, there was a decrease in the volatility of the foreign exchange rate, which has appreciated moderately against the US dollar from a plateau of R$2.90 to a level around R$ 2.85. In this period country risk measured by the Embi+ fell from 650 b.p. to 607 b.p.. In addition, the Republic issued US$1.5 billion in bonds at a lower rate than in previous issues. Considering the current scenario the Copom believes that the external scenario in the coming months will remain significantly more favorable for the Brazilian economy than in recent years. This is true even if there is a deceleration in the speed of recovery of the advanced economies or a deterioration in international liquidity or risk appetite.
19. The reduction of country risk, the stability of the exchange rate and the good performance of the external accounts are a result of the consistent macroeconomic policy and the favorable international scenario, which is characterized by improved prospects for growth in the US and Asia and by the increase of global liquidity. The progress of domestic structural reforms, which will improve the flexibility of the economy and the composition of public expenditure and revenues, will bring medium-term benefits for monetary policy, help decreasing risk premiums and strengthen the capacity of the Brazilian economy to withstand shocks.
20. After the relative stability between August and September, the median of market inflation expectations for next year has decreased in October. For the next 12 months, market expectations decreased to 6.25% from 6.50%, which is in accordance with the trajectory of the inflation targets up to September. For 2004, market expectations decreased to 6.0% from 6.2%. These results show that monetary policy has been able to coordinate market expectations so that they converge to the trajectory of the inflation targets and suggest that economic agents consider the increase of inflation in September as a one-off event. Nonetheless, market inflation expectations increased for 2003 to 9.8% from 9.6%, which reflects the fact that September inflation was higher than projected.
21. The BCB´s inflation forecasts, assuming the maintenance of the Selic rate at 20% p.a. and the exchange rate at R$ 2.85, still point to inflation above the adjusted target of 8.5% for 2003. Using the same assumptions for the exchange and interest rates, the BCB´s forecasts for the next 12 months and 2004 are below the targets. The forecasts for 2004 are slightly higher than the September meeting projections mainly due to the impact of the higher projections for the readjustments of regulated prices next year. Even with the increase of the inflation forecasts, the inflation trajectory for the coming months remains below the path presented in the Open Letter sent by the BCB Governor to the Ministry of Finance on January 21st, 2003.
22. In the Minutes of its September meeting, the Copom analyzed the risks of wage readjustments under collective bargaining agreements to the trajectory of inflation. The readjustments so far have been below the level of 12-month accumulated inflation but higher than projected inflation for the next 12 months. As a consequence, it appears that a moderate increase of real wages, compatible with the recovery of the economic activity without a generalized process of re-indexation, is set to materialize.
23. The Copom forecasts inflation based on models which, by their nature and limitations, have some uncertainties about the magnitude and lag of the monetary policy transmission mechanism. The main impacts of the reductions in the Selic rate in the third quarter of this year on economic activity are still beginning to materialize. The recovery of economic activity that has been observed since the third quarter is mainly due to improvements in the risk profile of the Brazilian economy and the effects of monetary policy on the yield curve in previous quarters. For this reason, the Copom will be carefully following the recovery of economic activity so as to keep it balanced and to avoid inflation pressures. This monitoring is important as a consequence of the changes in the real interest rate in recent months. However, with the progressive consolidation of the favorable prospects recently observed for medium-term inflation, the Copom considers that there is room for additional cuts in the Selic rate in the future.
24. Since forecasts for 12 month ahead and 2004 inflation remain below the target, market expectations continue to converge to the trajectory of the targets, and the favorable external scenario contributes to price stability, the Copom decided to fix the Selic rate target at 19.0% p.a., continuing the process of monetary policy easing.