1. The main price indices showed lower changes in October, confirming the evaluation that the increase registered in September was temporary. Besides, the results for October revealed that the main contributions to the monthly inflation were localized, ratifying the downward trend for various core measures of consumer price inflation.
2. The IPCA rose 0.29% in October, compared to 0.78% in the previous month, accumulating an increase of 8.37% in the year, and of 13.98% in twelve months. The IGP-DI rose 0.44%, after an increase of 1.05% in September, influenced by a 0.50% increase in the IPA-DI, and a 0.21% increase in the IPC-Br. The IGP-DI and the IPA-DI indices accumulated in twelve months were reduced for the 7th consecutive month in October, reaching 15.78% and 16.36%, respectively.
3. Regarding the IPCA, the 0.38% increase in free prices contributed with 0.27 p.p. to the overall result of the index, while the 0.07% increase in regulated prices contributed with the remaining 0.02 p.p.. In the first group, the increases were concentrated in specific items, of which chicken price alone, with a 11.4% increase in the month, contributed with 0.1 p.p. in the overall result for October. Most part of the food prices, however, showed deceleration in October, jointly registering a 0.45% variation, compared to 0.78% in September.
4. Concerning regulated prices, a 1% increase in electricity tariffs was observed, due to the increase of the so-called “emergency capacity fee” and the tariffs readjustment in the city of Goiânia. On the other hand, the fall in fuel prices, as well as in airplane ticket prices, explain the stability of overall regulated prices in the month, after expressive increases observed from July to September.
5. In the wholesale sector, both agricultural and industrial prices registered smaller variations in October, compared to the previous month. The Agricultural-IPA rose 1.30%, after an increase of 3.55% in September, still reflecting the increase of soy prices in the international market, and pressures in meat prices, albeit in lower magnitude than in the previous month. Industrial prices increased 0.18% in the month, after a 0.40% increase in September. The deceleration of industrial prices was determined mainly by the decrease in prices of motor fuel, fertilizers, pharmaceutical products, iron, steel and by-products.
6. Core IPCA inflation calculated excluding household food items and regulated prices increased 0.37% for the fourth consecutive month, accumulating a 10.14% increase in the last twelve months. 
7. Core IPCA inflation calculated under the smoothed trimmed-mean method increased 0.77% in October, compared to 0.86% in September. In the last twelve months, the accumulated change stood at 12.67%, still reflecting the effects of price increases in the end of 2002. Inflation calculated without the smoothing procedure for pre-selected items reached 0.29% and 10.87% in the month and in twelve months, respectively.
8. Core IPC-Br inflation calculated under the symmetric trimmed-mean method by FGV rose 0.5% in October, accumulating an increase of 11.91% in the twelve months ending in October. 
9. In November, both consumer and wholesale price indices should register variations close to those observed in October. In the wholesale index, increases in the prices of vegetables, fruit, fertilizers and mechanic industry goods are expected, whereas decreases are expected in the prices of eggs, beans, corn and sugar. The relative stability expected for the IPCA variation will result from the continuity of deceleration of free prices, particularly food prices, and increases in regulated prices. The price increase expected for this group comes from the price readjustments for lotteries, urban bus services in Rio de Janeiro, and electricity tariffs in the concession areas of Light and Companhia Estadual de Energia Elétrica (CEEE), whose impacts should more than compensate price decreases that have been observed in motor fuel.
10. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations assumes the following hypotheses:
a. There has been a 0.5% reduction in the projections for the readjustment of gasoline in 2003. The new projection for this year’s readjustment stands at 0.8% for the whole year. Regarding bottled gas, projections have also been reduced, and, for 2003, a 4.6% readjustment is expected,
b. In relation to household electricity tariffs, the readjustment projection slightly increased from the last Copom meeting, to 21.7% in November, from 21.2% in October. Projections for fixed telephone fees readjustments in 2003 were reduced significantly in November, falling from 25% to 19.1%, value that has already been accumulated in the year up to October. Therefore, projections for 2003 assume that no new judicial decision will be made until the end of the year allowing fixed telephone companies to readjust tariffs,
c. For all regulated prices, with a total weight of 28.9% in the IPCA of October, inflation projected for 2003 fell 0.6% p.p., posting 13.3%, mainly due to the fall in the projections for price readjustments of gasoline and bottled gas, despite the slight exchange rate depreciation that took place in the last month,
d. The regulated prices projections in 2004, based on specific projections for each item, decreased 0.4 p.p., to 8.5% in November, mainly as a consequence of a fall in the projected readjustment for public transportation for 2004,
e. The projection for the 6-month spread over the Selic rate, following the specification of the VAR model using the Selic and the swap rates on the eve of the Copom meeting, was –130 b.p. for the fourth quarter of 2003, gradually rising to 70 b.p. at the end of 2004.
11. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the primary surplus target of 4.25% of the GDP for this year and the following two years will be accomplished. The other related assumptions established in the October meeting were maintained.
12. Considering the baseline scenario hypotheses, including the maintenance of the Selic interest rate at 19.0% p.a. and the exchange rate at the level prevailing on the eve of the Copom meeting (R$2.95), inflation is projected above the adjusted target of 8.5% for 2003 and below the target of 5.5% for 2004.
13. The inflation decrease in October confirms the Copom’s evaluation expressed in the minutes of the previous month’s meeting that the acceleration of inflation in September was temporary. Regarding the IPCA, the 0.29% inflation in October was almost 0.5 p.p. lower than the result of September. 
This reduction was generalized, having been verified in regulated prices and in both components of free prices: tradable and non-tradable items. Other consumer price indices, as the IPC-Fipe and the IPC-Br, also showed lower inflation in October. Preliminary data for November, as the IPCA-15, IPC-Fipe and the weekly IPC of FGV, suggest that inflation for November tends to fall or stabilize at levels around the one observed in October. The behavior of the general and wholesale price indices was similar. It is worth mentioning that the agricultural IPA, with a variation of 1.30%, a 2.3 p.p. decrease in comparison to September, shows the reduction of the “inter-harvest” effects over inflation. It is increasingly likely that a one-digit inflation for the IPCA will be accomplished in 2003, which has already been anticipated by market participants since August according to the surveys carried weekly by the Investor Relations Group (Gerin).
14. All core inflation measures had the same behavior of the inflation indices. Core inflation measures calculated under the trimmed-mean method, either smoothed or not, fell. Core IPCA inflation calculated by excluding household food items and regulated prices remained stable at 0.37% for the fourth consecutive month. The ratio of IPCA items that had positive variations fell to 61.1% in October from 63.4% in September, below the 63.5% mean observed since the beginning of the floating exchange rate regime.
15. Economic activity indicators released since the October meeting confirm the recovery scenario that the Copom was outlining in recent months. According to IBGE, industrial production rose 7.0% since June (s.a.). In September industrial production rose 4.3%, reaching a level higher than in the same month in 2002, what had not occurred since May 2003. Following the trend outlined since August, industrial production growth was more spread, with expansion reaching 17 of 20 sectors and all the category of uses. The recovery of industrial activity evidenced in the IBGE indicators is confirmed by the CNI seasonally adjusted data, which shows an increase in working hours and in the installed capacity between August and September. The Copom evaluates that the recovery in the economy should strengthen in the next months, even though a decrease in the growth rates occur compared to the high rates observed in September 
16. The scenario of recovery in consumption is now more clearly outlined, although at a slower pace than output. According to IBGE, the volume of retail sales in 2003 is lower than the level for the same months of 2002. However, the decreases are gradually falling, reaching 2.7% in September from 5.9% in August. Compared to June, seasonally adjusted data show an accumulated growth of 0.9% that should be interpreted with caution due to the reduced size of the series. Preliminary sales figures in the greater São Paulo, according to Fecomércio, show a 0.5% s.a. increase in October, compared to September. Another evidence of the recovery in consumption is the increase of consultations to the Credit Protection System (SPC) and Usecheque in October.
17. The Copom foresees a consolidation of the consumption upward trend over the next months due to better credit conditions and progressive recovery in real income due to wage agreements and other developments in the labor market. The new scheme of repaying loans directly from payrolls should continue to allow the expansion of credit concessions at significantly lower costs. Besides, according to CNI and Fiesp, real wages in the manufacturing sector are expanding since the beginning of the year. According to the CNI, wage payroll in September is very close to the observed at the end of the third quarter of 2002. In September there was an increase of both total number of employed workers (1.2%, according to the IBGE) and formally employed workers (0.5%, according to the Ministry of Labor). However, the unemployment rate calculated by IBGE in September is practically unaltered at 12.9% due to continued increase in the labor force. The lag between improvement in activity and fall in jobless rate is usual in cyclical recoveries, as the number of workers entering the labor force increases more than job positions. In the short run, consumption shall be supported by the end-of-year bonus (13th wage) in an environment of more favorable expectations regarding the economy.
18. Another important result for the consolidation of a improving economic activity scenario is the evidence that investment also begins to recover. In September there was an increase of 11.4% in absorption of capital goods compared to August (s.a.), which corresponds to the sum of production and net exports of capital goods, a good indicator of the investment in the economy. So, the increase in investment reinforces the Copom evaluation presented in previous minutes in the sense that economic growth will be balanced without inflationary pressure, using excess of idle capacity in the beginning followed by an increase in installed capacity.
19. External accounts sustained the positive performance observed so far this year. The excellent results from October and the first weeks of November rose the Central Bank’s trade balance forecast to US$23.5 billion from US$20.5 billion. The current account projection to 2003 increased in this period to US$3 billion surplus from a US$1.2 billion deficit. The country risk measured by the Embi+ fell 25 b.p. since last Copom meeting reaching 583 b.p. The foreign exchange rate has depreciated against the US dollar from R$2.85 to R$2.95.
20. In the last months the probability of a scenario of jointly growth of the world economy has increased, with good perspectives in the US, Europe and Japan. The perspectives of growth in the developing economies are the most favorable in recent years. The growth of world economy will boost international liquidity and increase demand for Brazilian exports. As a consequence, Brazilian economy may recover without more significant pressures over the Balance of Payments financing or the exchange rate.
21. The medians of the market inflation expectations sustained the downward trend. For 2003, probably as a result of the lower-than-expected October inflation, expectations decreased to 9.4% from 9.8%. For the next 12 months, market expectations decreased to 5.9% from 6.25%, which is lower than the 6.0% stipulated by the trajectory of the inflation targets for October 2004. For 2004, expectations remained at 6.0%. This evolution in inflation expectations occurred together with an increase in GDP expectations to 3.4% from 3.2%. Economic agents seem to anticipate a balanced recovery, without threatening the inflation target set up for 2004.
22. The Central Bank’s inflation forecasts, assuming the maintenance of the Selic rate at 19% p.a. and the exchange rate at R$2.95, still point to an inflation above the adjusted target of 8.5% for 2003. Under the same assumptions for the exchange and interest rate, the Central Bank’s forecasts for the next 12 months and 2004 are below the targets. The forecasts have not changed significantly since October because the inflationary impact of the exchange rate depreciation was compensated by the lower-than-projected inflation in October and the decrease to 8.5% from 8.9% of expected regulated prices growth for 2004. Thus, inflation trajectory for the coming months remains below the path presented in the Open Letter sent by the Central Bank’s Governor to the Ministry of Finance on January 21st, 2003.
23. The Copom understood consensually that it was necessary to carry on with monetary easing, considering that the inflation projections associated to the baseline scenario for the next twelve months and for 2004 remained below the inflation target, that inflation expectations were compatible with the path of the target and with the balanced recovery of the economy, and that the external scenario is favorable to price stability. It was also consensual in the Copom that the direct and indirect effects of successive reductions of the Over-Selic rate target since June did not yet materialize totally in the behavior of activity and inflation. These reductions, which accumulated 750 b.p. between June and October, were accompanied by the sustained reduction of market real interest rates for different maturities. As highlighted in previous meetings, there are important uncertainties regarding the magnitude and the lag of monetary transmission.
24. Two members of the Copom considered more adequate, at this moment, to reduce the Over-Selic rate target by 100 b.p., continuing the monetary easing at a slower pace, and adjourning more expansionist moves when economic growth consolidates whilst inflation is consistent with the targets. However, most of the Copom members understood that the risk balance for activity level and inflation already justified a complementary expansionist impulse, through the reduction of 150 b.p. in the Over-Selic rate target, not ignoring the uncertainties regarding the monetary transmission.