1. The main price indicators showed an inflation increase in January. The Broad Consumer Price Index (IPCA) rose 0.76% in January, compared to 0.52% in December, registering three consecutive monthly increases. The General Price Index – Domestic Supply (IGP-DI) rose 0.80% in January, after a 0.60% increase in December and a 0.48% increase in November. The IGP-DI change was influenced by the 0.75% increase in the Wholesale Price Index (IPA-DI) and by the 1.08% increase in the Consumer Price Index – Brazil (IPC-Br). The accumulated changes of the IPCA, IGP-DI and IPA-DI in twelve months sustained a downward trend in January, registering 7.71%, 6.22% and 4.75%, respectively. 
2. Concerning the São Paulo Consumer Price Index (IPC-Fipe), inflation diminished to 0.46% in the first week of February, from 0.65% in January. However, this decrease in the IPC-Fipe is not necessarily representative of the IPCA trend, as the indices encompass different geographical areas, different basket of goods and different methodologies. Both indices have also presented different behaviors in the recent past. In the last twelve months, the IPC-Fipe posted a 6.53% change, 1.18 p.p. lower than the IPCA change over the same period. The gap in the changes of prices in São Paulo and in the other areas in Brazil is also detected in the IPCA regional breakdown: in the last twelve months, the accumulated change of the São Paulo IPCA rose by 6.26%, while the average change in the other 10 cities surveyed rose by 8.51%. 
3. The more important individual contributions for the IPCA result in January were electricity tariffs, car prices, fresh food products, rice, beans and bottled gas, which altogether accounted for 0.28 p.p. of the total change of the index. Market prices changed 0.73% in the month, contributing 0.52 p.p. to the overall result of IPCA, while the 0.84% increase in regulated prices contributed 0.24 p.p. Among the latter, the higher contributions came from electricity, bottled gas, gasoline, alcohol-based auto fuel and health insurance plans. 
4. Concerning wholesale prices, the IPA-DI remained roughly stable at 0.75% in January. This behavior resulted from the reduction of agricultural prices and from the increase of industrial prices. The Agricultural IPA registered a -0.34% variation in January, after rising 0.58% in December, mainly reflecting the falls in the prices of meat, chicken, milk and egg products, which more than compensated the price increases of fresh food items, coffee and beans. The Industrial IPA posted a 1.20% change, compared to 0.80% in December, the third consecutive acceleration. The higher contributions to the Industrial IPA acceleration came from the metallurgy industry (iron, non-iron metals, steel and by-products), chemical industry (plastics, fertilizers and others) and transportation industry. For fabrics, clothing and shoes, the monthly change remained stable, albeit in a high level for the third consecutive month, still reflecting the effects of cotton price increase. 
5. Core IPCA inflation, calculated excluding household food items and regulated prices, posted a 0.64% increase in January, remaining relatively stable in comparison to the 0.63% variation in December. Transportation and personal expenses have contributed more intensely to this result. Considering the accumulated change in twelve months, the core registered a 7.39% variation in January, compared to an 8.17% variation in December. 
6. The variation of the IPCA core inflation, calculated under the smoothed trimmed-mean method, reached 0.73% in January compared to 0.72% in December. The 12-month accumulated change posted 10.47%. The same measure, without the smoothing procedure, showed acceleration for the third consecutive month, reaching 0.63% in comparison to 0.54% in the previous month. 
7. Core IPC-Br inflation calculated under the symmetric trimmed-mean method by Fundação Getúlio Vargas (FGV) reached 0.65% in January, compared to 0.46% in December, accumulating an increase of 8.95% in the last 12 months. 
8. The effects of the food prices recent slowdown – reflecting the beginning of the harvest period and the fall of fresh food prices – is likely to moderate the remaining pressures on inflation in February. Such trend is already noticeable in the partial results already disclosed for February wholesale inflation. As to industrial prices, it should continue to reflect the costs increases. Regarding the IPCA, the favorable evolution of food prices should be offset by the price increases in education, health insurance plans and telephone tariffs. 
9. The identified shocks and their impacts were reassessed according to newly available information. The scenario considered in the simulations assumes the following hypotheses: 
a. Gasoline and bottled cooking gas price projections for 2004 were maintained at 9.5% and 10%, respectively, 
b. Household electricity tariffs are expected to increase 6.3% in 2004, a reduction of 0.5 p.p. compared to the expectation in the last Copom meeting. The projections for telephone tariffs were slightly risen, by 0.2 p.p., reaching 6.8%, 
c. Regarding all regulated prices, with a total weight of 28.9% in the January IPCA, the Copom maintained the projection for 2004 nearly unchanged at 7.7%, 
d. The projection for the readjustments of regulated prices in 2005, based on the endogenous determination model, increased to 6.0% from 5.4%. This model takes into account seasonal factors, the exchange rate behavior, market prices change and the IGP inflation rate, 
e. The projection for the trajectory of the 6-month spread over the Selic rate, following the specification of a Vector Autoregressive model using the Selic and swap rates on the eve of the Copom meeting, reached 17.1% in the fourth quarter of 2005. 
10. Regarding fiscal policy, it is assumed that the primary surplus target of 4.25% of the GDP for 2004 and the following two years will be achieved. The related assumptions considered in the previous meeting were maintained. 
11. Considering the benchmark scenario hypotheses, including the maintenance of the Selic interest rate at 16.5% p.a. and of the exchange rate close to the level prevailing on the eve of the Copom meeting (R$2,91), IPCA inflation was projected below the 5.5% target for 2004. Inflation projections based on the trajectories of the exchange rate and Selic rate expected by market participants on the eve of the meeting, gathered by the BCB´s Investor Relations Group (Gerin), were above the central targets of 5.5% and 4.5% for 2004 and 2005, respectively. 
12. The inflation rate accelerated from December to January. The 0.76% IPCA variation in January was significantly higher than market consensus on the eve of the December Copom meeting (0.60%). Inflation for the three groups in the IPCA – tradable, non-tradable and regulated items – stood high and/or increased in January. For tradable goods, the January result remained similar to the one observed in December, around 0.5%. Non-tradable and regulated prices changes departed from an already high level in December and increased about 0.4 p.p. in January, posting 0.97% and 0.84%, respectively, the third consecutive rise for both series. 
13. The IPC-Br accelerated to 1.08% in January, from 0.43% in December. Inflation measured by the general price indices (IGP-M and IGP-DI) and by the IPA-M also rose in January. Inflation measured by the IPA-DI remained practically stable from December to January, but at a high rate (0.75%), in spite of being strongly favored by the Agricultural IPA 0.34% fall. The Industrial IPA rose for the third month in a row and reached 1.20% in January, the highest figure since March 2003. 
14. Core inflation measures remained practically stable in January, in a level inconsistent with the inflation targets. The core IPCA calculated by excluding household food items and regulated prices posted 0.64% in January, close to the variation observed in December, but higher than that of November (0.38%). The core IPCA calculated under the smoothed trimmed-mean method presented a similar behavior: 0.56% in November, 0.72% in December and 0.73% in January. The core IPC-Br calculated under the symmetric trimmed-mean method rose to 0.65% in January, from 0.46% in December. The ratio of items with positive variations in the IPCA increased to 70.9% in January, from 64.8% in December, the highest level since April 2003. 
15. Economic activity indicators remain consistent with the economic recovery scenario that the Copom has been working with in the last months. After a significant fall in the first half of 2003, industrial production presented strong growth in the second half of the year. The industrial production quarterly moving average accumulated a 5.1% growth from June to December, seasonally adjusted. For the same period, durable goods and capital goods output production presented an 18.4% and 12.3% growth, respectively. 
16. In the same period, the semi and non-durable goods output, strongly influenced by real earnings, registered a 1.8% drop (quarterly moving average). The Copom stresses the remarks made in the January meeting minutes that these sectors recovery will come naturally, as a consequence of the gradual dissemination of growth throughout the economy. An excessive monetary easing with the objective of pushing these specific sectors forward would intensify, in the short run, the recovery gaps amongst sectors, and would allow for inflationary pressures to arise from leading sectors. 
17. In December, industrial output presented a 1% fall, seasonally adjusted, in relation to the previous month. When the quarterly moving average is taken, the output decrease in December diminishes to 0.1%, month-on-month, and is close to the December 2000 historical peak. Volatility around the underlying output trend is normal in periods of economic recovery. This volatility does not indicate that the economic rebound process is losing steam, especially because the monetary easing that took place in the second half of 2003 has not yet fully materialized. 
18. Industrial sales growth surpassed industrial production growth for the third consecutive month. In the second half of 2003, industrial sales increased 2.5 p.p. more than industrial output. This gap augmented in the fourth quarter, when industrial sales increased 4.3 p.p. more than output. The different growth rates suggest a higher expansionary stimulus for industrial output in the short-term, coming from the inventories build-up dynamics, as well as from improved consumer confidence, real earnings growth and credit expansion. 
19. According to IBGE data seasonally adjusted by the BCB, retail sales quarterly moving average grew 0.5% in December, compared to November, and 2.9% from June to December. As for industrial sales, retail sales growth was led by sectors directly favored with credit expansion, as furniture and appliances (14.4% from June to December), and automobiles and motorcycles (16.2% for the same period). The most likely scenario is a continuous recovery in consumption as a consequence of improved consumer sentiment, higher real payrolls and lower consumer default rates. 
20. As in previous months, the external sector continued to post a positive performance. In January, exports and imports increased 26.5% and 20.9%, respectively, compared to January 2003. The trade balance and the current account registered an US$1.6 billion and a US$0.7 billion surplus, respectively. There was an increase in the sovereign risk perception due to market concern about an earlier-than-expected rise in US interest rates and its impact in emerging markets liquidity. As a consequence, the Brazil Embi+ increased nearly 100 b.p., to 520 b.p. between the January and the February Copom meetings. In the same period, private external funding diminished and the dollar appreciated from R$2.84 to R$2.91. Nonetheless, the external scenario remains positive, with favorable perspectives for global growth, increase in demand for Brazilian exports and adequate liquidity conditions. 
21. First quarter market inflation expectations have been increasing since December. The inflation in January was higher than market consensus and preliminary data suggest that February inflation will also be higher than the previous forecast. Considering the eves of the Copom meetings, the median of the first quarter inflation expectations for the five most accurate short-term forecasters (the Top 5 short-term forecasters) increased to 1.98% in February from 1.68% in January and 1.48% in December. The median of the market inflation expectations rose to 1.90% in February from 1.51% in December. Despite higher expectations for the first quarter inflation, the medians for 2004 and 2005 inflation remained stable at 6.0% and 5.0%, respectively. 
22. The BCB inflation forecasts, according to the benchmark scenario (assuming unchanged Over-Selic rate at 16.5% p.a. and exchange rate at R$2,91/US$), are below the 5.5% target for 2004 and below the 4.5% target for 2005. Compared to January, there was an increase in the inflation projection for 2004, due to higher-than-anticipated inflation in January and due to the impact of the exchange rate depreciation. The forecast for 2005 remained unaltered. Under the market scenario, which takes into account the path for the exchange rate and the Over-Selic rate expected by market participants on the eve of the Copom meeting, the BCB inflation estimates are above the targets for 2004 and 2005. 
23. The Copom also examined the inflation projections produced according to the same methodology and according to the same benchmark and market scenarios, taking into account the Top 5 short-term inflation expectations for February and March, and hence projecting inflation for the following months. In this exercise, the projected inflation for 2004 is slightly above the target even in the benchmark scenario, although the projection for 2005 remains below the target. The same procedure considering the market scenario shows an increased difference between the projected inflation rate and the targets for 2004 and 2005. 
24. Considering the post-Real Plan period, the January inflation was the highest in the first quarter in 7 out of 9 years. It is justified to expect that this seasonal behavior persists and that the February inflation shows some reversion in relation to January. However, since the January meeting, the Copom has not yet identified factors that could reduce the risks of an inflation higher than the 5.5% target for 2004. First, the IPCA and the different core measures in January, as well as the expectations for February, do not point out any reduction trend. Preliminary evidence of an inflation deceleration can be found in the partial results of the IPC-Fipe and the weekly IPC-S. For the IPC-S, however, inflation persists at a high level, for the IPC-Fipe, the reduction was more intense, and yet, due to the reasons described in paragraph 2 above, this pattern may not be the same for the IPCA. Second, inflation measured by the Industrial IPA remained high and accelerated, influenced by an increase in some commodities prices, by a higher demand for inputs and by the relative price realignment, favoring the sectors that benefited from stronger demand. Although a higher wholesale inflation will not necessarily be transmitted to consumers with the same intensity, a higher passthrough would happen as a consequence of the perception of a lenient monetary policy and of an over-optimistic scenario produced by the recovery of certain sectors. 
25. Even considering that the recent inflation increase was caused by seasonal and one-off factors, and considering the return of inflation to a path consistent with the inflation target in the near future, the achievement of the 5.5% target for 2004 will require a more cautious monetary policy, as a result of higher inflation in January and of higher short-term inflation expectations. 
26. Consequently, and considering the uncertainties about the magnitude and the lags on the output gap and on inflation of the 10 p.p. reduction in the Over-Selic rate that took place from June to December, the Copom maintains the January minutes diagnosis, that there is a real likelihood that inflation deviates from the target, requiring an extra concern in monetary policymaking. 
27. The balance between the risks of inflation deviating from the target and the interruption in the economy recovery process has not changed significantly since January. Resuming monetary easing prematurely can significantly increase the risk that actual inflation deviates from the target, which could force a change in monetary stance in the medium run, with strong interest rates movements and a significant effect on economic activity. On the other hand, an unchanged Over-Selic rate causes a substantial lower risk of damaging the process of economy recovery. 