The global environment remains adverse and volatile, marked by prospects of below-
potential 2023 global growth. The tightening of financial conditions in major 
economies, difficulties in energy supply to Europe, and a challenging scenario for 
growth in China, partly due to the Covid-19 policy in the country, reinforce a slowing 
global growth outlook in the coming quarters. 
2. The inflationary environment remains challenging. There is a normalization in supply 
chains and an accommodation in the prices of major commodities in the recent period, 
which should lead to a moderation in global goods-related inflationary pressures. In 
turn, the low level of labor market slack in some economies, coupled with high current 
inflation and a high degree of diffusion, suggests that inflationary pressures on the 
services sector should last longer. 
3. The process of normalization of monetary policy in advanced economies continues 
towards contractionary rates synchronized across countries, tightening financial 
conditions, impacting economic growth expectations, and raising the risk of abrupt 
repricing movements in the markets. The Committee noted a stronger market 
sensitivity of financial assets to fiscal fundamentals, including in advanced economies, 
and lower liquidity in several markets. This environment calls for greater caution in the 
conduct of economic policies also by emerging economies.  
4. Turning to the Brazilian economy, the set of indicators released since the previous 
meeting corroborates the scenario of slowdown in the growth expected by the 
Committee. The release of the third quarter GDP figures suggested a more moderate 
growth rate than in previous quarters, despite expansion in all components of demand. 
Similarly, the labor market continues to recover, but at a slower pace than in previous 
months. 
5. Despite the recent reduction, especially on items which are more volatile and 
affected by tax measures, consumer inflation remains high. Items related to industrial 
goods, reflecting the more intense decrease in producer prices and the reduction of 
pressures in global value chains, also showed deceleration, albeit still slow. The inflation 
of the components more sensitive to the economic cycle and the monetary policy, 
which present greater inflationary inertia, remain above the range compatible with 
meeting the inflation target, albeit showing some marginal moderation. Inflation 
expectations for 2022, 2023, and 2024 collected by the Focus survey are around 5.9%, 
5.1%, and 3.5%, respectively. 
 
B) Scenarios and risk analysis  
6. In the reference scenario, the interest rate path is extracted from the Focus survey, 
and the exchange rate starts at USD/BRL 5.252 and evolves according to the purchasing 
power parity (PPP). The Committee assumes that oil prices follow approximately the 
futures market curve for the following six months and then start increasing 2% per year 
onwards. Moreover, the energy flag is assumed to be “green” in December 2022 and 
“yellow” in December 2023 and 2024. In this scenario, Copom’s inflation projections 
stand at 6.0% for 2022, 5.0% for 2023, and 3.0% for 2024. Inflation projections for 
administered prices are -3.6% for 2022, 9.1% for 2023, and 4.2% for 2024. The 
Committee decided again to emphasize the six-quarter-ahead horizon, which reflects 
the relevant horizon, mitigates the primary effects from the tax changes but 
incorporates their second-round effects. On this horizon, which refers to the second 
quarter of 2024, the 12-month inflation projection stands at 3.3%. The Committee 
 
1 Unless explicitly stated otherwise, this update considers changes that occurred since the October Copom 
meeting (250th meeting). 
2 Value obtained according to the usual procedure of rounding the average USD/BRL exchange rate observed 
on the five business days ending on the last day of the week before the Copom meeting. 
251st Meeting 
COPOM 
December 6-7 
 
 
4 
 
  
bcb.gov.br 
judges that the uncertainty in its assumptions and projections is higher than usual. 
7. The Committee discussed the speed of the global disinflation process. On the one 
hand, the relaxation of pressures on global production chains, as well as the recent drop 
in commodity prices, indicate that the movement should continue in the short term, 
especially in the industrial goods, energy, and food segments. On the other hand, the 
Committee discussed that, given the spread of inflationary pressures to the services 
segment, which has a more inertial nature, in an environment of tight labor markets in 
several countries, the disinflation process should be non-linear and slower than that 
observed in recent episodes.  
8. Thus, the Committee continues to assess that the commitment and determination of 
central banks to reduce inflationary pressures and anchor expectations consolidate a 
global scenario of longer tightening of financial conditions, with interest rates at the 
end of the tightening cycle maintained for a sufficiently long period at contractionary 
levels, raising the risk of a more pronounced global deceleration. 
9. The Committee discussed two recent facts while analyzing the international 
markets. Firstly, it continues to assess that markets are more sensitive to developments 
that affect fiscal fundamentals, due to the combination of higher interest rates and 
sovereign debt at historically high levels. In addition, the Committee discussed the 
lower liquidity present in sovereign bond markets, possibly due to greater uncertainty 
in the interest rate dynamics, the reversal of long-term asset purchase policies and 
regulatory changes. These issues require monitoring and may also impact assets from 
emerging economies more strongly. 
10. Data on economic activity in Brazil continues to indicate a more moderate pace of 
marginal growth. The release of the third quarter GDP figures indicates a reduction in 
the pace of growth, especially in some of the more cyclical components. Nevertheless, 
growth was observed in all demand components and, in the supply side, growth in 
industry and services. Moreover, labor market data also indicate a reduction in the pace 
of job openings, but still with positive marginal net hirings. The set of released data, 
including the drop in confidence indicators and the reduction in credit granting, 
together with the lagged effects of monetary policy, reinforce the Committee's 
expectation of a slowdown in the pace of economic activity, which should worsen over 
the coming quarters. 
11. The inflationary outlook was then discussed, based on the more recent information. 
Some members noted the benign movement of commodities in BRL, highlighting 
additional downside risks ahead. Other members emphasized the volatile nature of 
these prices in an environment of pressured inventories. Finally, all members evaluated 
that current inflation did not surprise significantly in relation to expectations or 
substantially changed the understanding about future inflation dynamics. Moreover, 
they emphasized that disinflation in services and core inflation – components with 
greater inertia – will require increased attention and perseverance in the conduct of 
monetary policy. 
12. The Committee discussed extensively the impacts of different fiscal scenarios on 
inflation. In its analysis, the Committee reiterated the different channels through which 
fiscal policy can affect inflation not only via the primary effects of aggregated demand 
but also via asset prices, the degree of economic uncertainty, inflation expectations, 
and neutral interest rate. The Committee evaluated that changes in parafiscal policies 
or the reversal of structural reforms that lead to a less efficient allocation of resources 
might reduce the power of monetary policy. In the different exercises analyzed, it was 
evaluated that the final effect, either on inflation or on activity, will depend on both the 
combination and the magnitude of the fiscal and parafiscal policies. Furthermore, it was 
highlighted that the existence of economic slack and the confidence in the debt 
sustainability are determining factors for an expansionary fiscal policy to achieve the 
aimed impacts on the economic activity. In an environment of a narrow output gap, the 
251st Meeting 
COPOM 
December 6-7 
 
 
5 
 
  
bcb.gov.br 
impact of significant fiscal stimulus on the path of inflation tends to outweigh the aimed 
impacts on economic activity.  
13. The Committee believes that there is still a lot of uncertainty about the prospective 
fiscal scenario and that the moment requires caution in risk assessment. The Committee 
reiterates that it will continue to monitor future fiscal policy developments and their 
potential impacts on prospective inflation dynamics.  
14. It emphasizes that risks to its scenarios remain in both directions. Among the upside 
risks for the inflationary scenario and inflation expectations, it should be emphasized (i) 
a greater persistence of global inflationary pressures; (ii) the heightened uncertainty 
about the country's future fiscal framework and additional fiscal stimuli that support 
aggregate demand, partially incorporated in inflation expectations and asset prices; and 
(iii) an output gap tighter than the one currently adopted by the Committee in its 
reference scenario, especially in the labor market. Among the downside risks, it should 
be noted (i) an additional reduction in the prices of international commodities 
measured in local currency; (ii) a greater-than-projected deceleration of global 
economic activity; and (iii) the continuity of tax cuts assumed to be reversed in 2023. 
The current scenario, particularly uncertain on the fiscal side, requires serenity when 
evaluating risks. The Committee will closely monitor future developments in fiscal 
policy and, in particular, its effects on asset prices and inflation expectations, with 
potential impacts on the dynamics of future inflation. 
 
C) Discussion about the conduct of monetary policy 
15. Copom discussed the conduct of monetary policy, considering the set of projections 
evaluated, as well as the balance of risks for inflation. 
16. The 12-month inflation projection for the second quarter of 2024, in the scenario 
using the interest rate trajectory extracted from the Focus Survey, remains consistent 
with the strategy of inflation convergence to around the target over the relevant 
horizon. The Committee decided again to emphasize the six-quarter-ahead horizon for 
its projections, and stresses that this decision is conditional on the temporary nature of 
the taxes. Moreover, the Committee continues to consider that inflation projection for 
2024 is also around the target. This assessment reflects the lower-than-normal visibility 
of the forward-looking scenario, which increases the uncertainty of the point 
projections communicated by the Committee over longer horizons.  
17. Copom anticipates that, if the alternative scenario of maintaining tax exemption on 
fuels in 2023 materializes, it will again emphasize usual horizons that include the first 
quarter of 2023. However, it assesses that there will be no relevant impacts on the 
conduct of monetary policy since the primary effects of such measures are already 
being disregarded. 
18. Copom began by discussing the evolution of the broad array of data monitored, the 
projections, inflation expectations, output gap, and the balance of risks. Copom's 
inflation projections showed a slight increase over the relevant horizon due to both an 
increase in the projection for the inflation of market prices in shorter terms and a 
revision of the projection for the inflation of administered prices over longer terms. 
Compared to the previous meeting, the median inflation expectations from the Focus 
Survey rose slightly for 2023 and remained stable for 2024. However, regarding 2024, 
the Committee noted with concern a rise in the average expectations. The uncertainty 
about future fiscal dynamics, and its consequences on inflation dynamics, was 
discussed, and the uncertain environment was deemed to require serenity in assessing 
these risks. Services inflation showed some moderation but remains at high levels, and 
the Committee believes that the disinflation process of this component will become 
clearer over time. Finally, regarding the output gap, the Committee observed a 
reduction in the degree of economic slack in the third quarter, due to data revisions and 
251st Meeting 
COPOM 
December 6-7 
 
 
6 
 
  
bcb.gov.br 
the release of domestic variables, but believes that the gap should widen over the 
relevant horizon.  
19. Copom chose to maintain the interest rate, reinforcing the need to evaluate, over 
time, the cumulative impacts to be observed of the intense and timely monetary policy 
cycle already undertaken. Therefore, the Committee members assessed that, given the 
data released, projections, inflation expectations, the balance of risks, and the lags of 
the effects of the monetary policy already in significantly contractionary territory, it was 
appropriate to maintain the interest rate at the level of 13.75% p.a. The Committee 
reinforced that it is necessary to remain vigilant, assessing if the strategy of maintaining 
the Selic rate for a sufficiently long period will be enough to ensure the convergence of 
inflation. 
20. The Committee emphasizes that it will persist until the disinflationary process 
consolidates and inflation expectations anchor around its targets. The Committee 
emphasizes that it will not hesitate to resume the tightening cycle if the disinflationary 
process does not proceed as expected. 
 
D) Monetary policy decision 
21. Considering the assessed scenarios, the balance of risks, and the broad array of 
available information, the Copom decided to maintain the Selic rate at 13.75% p.a. The 
Committee judges that this decision reflects the uncertainty around its scenarios for 
prospective inflation, an even higher-than-usual variance in the balance of risks, and is 
consistent with the strategy for inflation convergence to a level around its target 
throughout the relevant horizon for monetary policy, which includes 2023 and 2024. 
Without compromising its fundamental objective of ensuring price stability, this 
decision also implies smoothing of economic fluctuations and fosters full employment. 
22. The Committee will remain vigilant, assessing if the strategy of maintaining the Selic 
rate for a sufficiently long period will be enough to ensure the convergence of inflation. 
The Committee emphasizes that it will persist until the disinflationary process 
consolidates and inflation expectations anchor around its targets. The Committee 
reinforces that future monetary policy steps can be adjusted and will not hesitate to 
resume the tightening cycle if the disinflationary process does not proceed as expected. 
23. The following members of the Committee voted for this decision: Roberto de 
Oliveira Campos Neto (Governor), Bruno Serra Fernandes, Carolina de Assis Barros, 
Diogo Abry Guillen, Fernanda Magalhães Rumenos Guardado, Maurício Costa de Moura, 
Paulo Sérgio Neves de Souza and Renato Dias de Brito Gomes.  
 
